Terminology
===========

There are **three branches**, or powers of government: the **{% include wp.html art="Legislature" link="legislative" %}** branch (legislature), that creates, modifies and repeals laws; the **{% include wp.html art="Judiciary" link="judicial" %}** branch (judiciary/judicature), that interprets and applies the law; and, the **{% include wp.html art="Executive_(government)" link="executive" %}** branch that executes and enforces the law. In the presidential system of the US there is a fairly clean separation of these three branches, in an attempt to ensure a dictatorship cannot take hold.

A **{% include wp.html link="head of state" %}** is the person who officially represents a {% include wp.html link="sovereign country" %}, like at international meetings. They are usually either a {% include wp.html link="monarch" %} or a {% include wp.html link="president" puncr="." %}

A [**head of government**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head_of_government) is the highest ranking official in the executive branch of a government (usually a president, premier, chancellor, prime minister or monarch), like of a federated state (e.g. Qld) or a sovereign nation.

[***de facto***](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_facto) literally means "in fact" and is generally meant to mean not legally recognized to be so, but in reality is so. This is as opposed to [***de jure***](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_jure) which means "in law". For example, a country wherein the *de facto* language is English, such as Australia, is one wherein there is no law explicitly giving English official status as the language of the land, but given it is the dominant language and the language used in official government communication it may as well be the official language. In fact, countries wherein English is given *de jure* status like India and South Africa often have lower levels of English fluency than countries wherein it merely has a *de facto* official status.

A [**cabinet**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cabinet_(government)) (often spelt with a capital c) is a body of officials, usually referred to as secretaries or ministers, that are the top leaders of the executive branch of government.

A proposed law is called a [**bill**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_(law)) until it is passed by the legislature and written into law. Legislatures may comprise a single chamber wherein members vote on a bill as a single unit, or they may comprise multiple chambers (sometimes referred to as *houses*) that debate and vote separately and have different roles. Legislatures with a single chamber are usually referred to as [**unicameral**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicameralism), while those with two chambers are called [**bicameral**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism). Historically, legislatures with more chambers have existed (e.g. a [three-chamber legislature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tricameralism) existed for a time during late apartheid South Africa), but presently there are none in existence.

In bicameral legislatures one chamber is often called the lower house and the other, the upper house. Legislatures modelled after that of the UK usually have a far stronger lower house than upper house, while in others both have approximately equal power (e.g. the Australian Senate) and in others the upper house has some unique powers the lower house does not have (e.g. the US Senate). 

Upper houses are often not directly elected, which is the case for the Canadian Senate (wherein it comprises of people appointed by the PM to sit there), the German Bundesrat (which comprises delegates from the various states), the United States Senate (also comprised of delegates from the various states) and the United Kingdom House of Lords (which comprises bishops from the Church of England; people with a birthright to be there; and those appointed by the Queen on the advice of the PM or the Appointments Commission). Despite this, some are directly elected, such as the Australian Senate. Members of the lower house of a bicameral legislature are almost always directly elected, as are members of the sole house of a unicameral legislature (e.g. the New Zealand House of Representatives).
