## Arch Linux
{% include_relative infoboxes/01-arch.html %}

[**Arch Linux**][100] is a minimalist Linux distribution that follows a bleeding-edge rolling release model. It started out in early 2001 as a side project of Judd Vinet, a Canadian programmer. He was inspired by the *simplicity* of the &#42;BSDs and Slackware, amongst other operating systems available at the time, but disappointed by their lack of suitable package management systems. So he devised a lightweight and simple package manager specifically for Arch Linux and called it pacman. pacman is written mostly in C and is the fastest Linux package manager I know of (for details of how I am determining this please see [this post][101]). What is meant by *simplicity* in this context is without unnecessary additions or changes. It also means with the minimum set of default, pre-installed software. The set of default pre-installed software are in the [`base`][102]) group. Arch Linux's first public release was in March 2002.{% include_relative includes/fn-inline.html no="4" %} Aaron Griffin took over the reins from Vinet in 2007 and is still the lead developer of Arch Linux.

### Package management
The `pacman` package that provides the pacman package manager also provides some extra useful scripts including [`makepkg`][103]. `makepkg` reads a type of specialized shell script known as a [PKGBUILD][104] and creates a package with the characteristic `.pkg.tar.xz` file extension. These packages, as the file extension suggests, are tar archives that are xz-compressed. Previously the packages were, by default, gz-compressed (hence with the file extension `.pkg.tar.gz`), but as processors have become stronger, xz-compressed packages have become more practical.

Arch Linux has the following stable (that is, not including testing ones) official repositories: [`[core]`][105], [`[extra]`][106], [`[community]`][107] and [`[multilib]`][108] (for 64-bit systems only). `[core]` contains packages crucial to booting, connecting to the internet, building packages, file system management, system setup processes, *etc.* `[extra]` contains packages that while important, do not fit in `[core]`. It also includes Xorg, GNOME, KDE, GVim, *etc.* and several other basic GUI packages. Both `[core]` and `[extra]` and their associated testing repositories, are maintained by Arch Linux developers. `[community]` contains packages maintained by [Trusted Users][109] (TUs; whom are elected by other TUs) and they often originated from the Arch User Repository or other unofficial repositories.

It is incredibly simple to setup an unofficial repository for Arch Linux, in fact, I have done so for free using GitHub. I have even written [a guide][110] on how to do this. This method requires one to build and then manually upload one's Arch Linux packages to GitHub. One can also use the [Open Build Service][111] of the openSUSE Project to build Arch Linux packages and upload them to a repository. I package the latest Vim for Arch Linux using the OBS, [here][112] is where my packaging files can be found and [here][113] is the download page for my Vim packages. This method does not provide one's package builds with internet access during the build. The OBS also does not provide your packages with access to the `[community]` repository for satisfying their dependencies, so you will have to provide any packages in this repository, that your Arch Linux package requires for the build, yourself. Likewise some packages in `[extra]` are excluded (namely those with licenses incompatible with the OBS) from the OBS and hence cannot be used for satisfying Arch Linux package build dependencies. 

Arch Linux has the most extensive repositories of any distribution I know of, that is, if one includes the AUR which contains user-submitted PKGBUILDs. As AUR packages are not all submitted by experts or otherwise experienced packagers it is considered potentially harmful and risky to install software from the AUR. I have contributed a few AUR packages, to find a list go [here][114].

### Closing remarks
It has no official distribution installer and installing the system must instead be done manually by the user themself, the official ArchWiki guide to doing this can be found [here][115]. As this installation must be done manually Arch Linux is more oriented towards intermediate-advanced users, specifically users that are:

* Comfortable with the command-line. If one is uncomfortable with the command-line one will likely struggle during the initial stage of setting up Arch Linux. It will likely also be a problem later as system management and installing new packages is best (but not strictly necessarily) done from the command-line. Some unofficial graphical tools for package management do exist, like [Octopi][116] and [Pamac][117], but they are not officially supported.
* Able to handle system-breaking bugs, like kernel bugs that prevent the system from booting.
* Know how to write a good, detailed, well-written forum question. The Arch Linux forum community can get quite rude if one does not write one's questions well and detailed. I have used the forums a few times and when I really needed help I found them rude, I will admit I had trouble explaining my question and had trouble providing command outputs because I could not merely copy and paste outputs as I had no graphical display server (as the issue I was facing, that I was asking for help with, was that my Xorg server would not properly start).
* Prefer a rolling release model.
* Prefer the very latest software available for Linux.
* Are not too obsessed with open-source. By this I mean, the software in Arch Linux's repositories is *mostly* open-source, but not exclusively. For example, it has got proprietary NVIDIA drivers in its official repositories. If one would prefer an entirely open-source, but otherwise Arch Linux-like system, one should use [Parabola GNU/Linux][118].
* Want a high degree of control over their system. The [Arch Build System][119] (ABS) can be used to re-build software in the official repositories with different configure options and even with different package versions.
* Do not want to compile (most) their packages from source. Some software (such as that in the [Arch User Repository][120] (AUR)) has to be compiled from source but most does not.
* Learn well by reading written documentation (as opposed to people that learn best from doing, being taught in person, or watching a video tutorial), as it has an extensive [MediaWiki][121]-powered Wiki known as [*The ArchWiki*][122].

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
