## Fedora
{% include_relative infoboxes/05-fedora.html %}

[**Fedora**][500] is a Linux distribution that is developed by its own open-source community project known as the *Fedora Project*. This project is funded by Red Hat, the world's largest (in terms of annual revenue) Linux company, and Red Hat also assumes the legal liability from the project. Around one in four contributors to the Fedora Project are Red Hat employees, but the remaining 75% of Fedora contributors are community volunteers. The most important decisions pertaining to Fedora are made by the [*Fedora Council*][501], which consists of Red Hat-appointed representatives and members of the volunteer community.{% include_relative includes/fn-inline.html no="7" %} Fedora previously used the yum package manager that CentOS still uses, but as of the release of Fedora 22 in May 2015, it now uses the DNF package manager (its source code can be found [here][502] by default). DNF is essentially a rewrite of yum, using the faster dependency resolver, [libsolv][503], which was originally written for openSUSE's package manager, ZYpp.

### Derivative distributions
Fedora is used as the basis for CentOS and the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) distribution, the premier product of Red Hat. It is also used as the basis for a couple more obscure distributions, namely [Chapeau][504] and [Korora][505]. These last two distributions are more up-to-date than CentOS, and a new release of these distributions usually follows a new release of Fedora by only a month or two. Each new release of these distributions are based on a new release of Fedora. Extra indirect Fedora derivatives can be found in the fact that RHEL is used as the basis for [Oracle Linux][506] and [Scientific Linux][507], both free products, despite being derived from the paid product, RHEL. 

### Package management
Fedora is similar to CentOS in that it has strict open-source licensing requirements for all software included in its official repositories. Despite this there are proprietary binary blobs on its build of the Linux kernel. Users that want/require other (other than the binary blobs on the kernel) pieces of proprietary software will likely be able to easily get them by enabling the [RPMFusion non-free repository][508] and [RPMFusion free repository][509] (as many packages in the non-free repository depend on packages in the free repository). This can be done by running:

{% include Code/coder.html line1="dnf install -y https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g').noarch.rpm https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g').noarch.rpm" %}

where `$(lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g')` uses `lsb_release` to determine the version of Fedora you are running (for example, for me running Fedora 25 executing `lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g'` in my terminal returns `25`) so as to determine the RPMFusion RPM you need to install. RPMFusion non-free repository most notably contains `broadcom-wl` (the closed-source driver for Broadcom wireless), `lpf-spotify-client` (which is a script to build the Spotify Client from the Debian binaries officially released by the Spotify Company) and [`steam`][510] (the gaming platform). It is not completely comprehensive, however, and is missing RuneScape's NXT Client, among other pieces of software. Alternatively users that need/want proprietary software, especially those that want out-of-the-box support for devices with proprietary drivers should consider installing Chapeau. The main difference between Chapeau and Fedora is that Chapeau is not quite as strict on the licensing of its included software and the software in its official repositories. I have also written a [shell script][511] specifically for installing `broadcom-wl` on Fedora (any version).

### Packaging
The OBS can be used to build packages for Fedora, although it has limitations that Fedora's own Copr package-building service does not have. Namely, it often lags behind Coprs in terms of support for building packages for new releases of Fedora. For example, it took over a month after the release of Fedora 25 before the OBS began to support building packages for Fedora 25. Coprs can also provide internet access for package builds, which the OBS cannot. OBS does have the advantage of having services that will download your upstream source files for you (from their upstream URL), so that they are available when your package is built. This is as opposed to the Copr, which to my knowledge has no automated methods for uploading the upstream source files, leaving it to you uploading them manually, which can chew up a lot of your bandwidth. I have a few Coprs of my own, to see a list of them go [here][511]. I also package a few packages for Fedora using the OBS, including Vim, for which the packaging files can be found [here][1112] and the download page is [here][113]. 

### Beginners and Fedora
I could believe that a beginner could use Fedora, provided their computer has no devices that require proprietary drivers, or provided they can workaround any devices they have that do require proprietary drivers. For example, some desktop computers have Broadcom chips for connecting to WiFi but a possible workaround for this is to connect said desktop to an ethernet cable. That way, the lack of out-of-the-box support for Broadcom chips would not impede one's ability to connect to the internet. Likewise a beginner could manage to use Fedora as their first distribution, even with device support issues provided they had a more experienced user to metaphorically hold their hand. A beginner could manage using Fedora mostly because it does have graphical tools for package management and Fedora's official installer, Anaconda, has a graphical front-end.

### Installation
I should probably mention that I have personally found Anaconda the single most buggy installer of any free operating system I have ever used. When I install Fedora using it on my HP Envy 17 laptop I always find that at the initial stage of selecting my language (which in my case is Australian English, although this issue exists even if I leave it as the default language, American English) as soon as I press "Continue" it freezes for ten minutes at least. During that time if I move the installer window around, at all, it will become unresponsive and I will be asked whether to close that window or wait for it to become responsive. If you want further evidence of how buggy Anaconda can be, the Sabayon Linux project used to use Anaconda as their default installer, but they switched to Calamares due to Anaconda's bugginess,{% include_relative includes/fn-inline.html no="8" %} although unfortunately they have since switched back due to issues with Calamares.{% include_relative includes/fn-inline.html no="9" %} 
 
### Rawhide
Fedora also has a developmental edition called [Rawhide][513] which gets all the very latest software updates (including developmental software updates. For example, release candidates of the Linux kernel often make an appearance in Rawhide's repositories) and follows a rolling release model. It is not intended for production use and should only be used by advanced users that know how to fix/workaround system-breaking bugs (like kernel bugs that prevent booting, which semi-frequently occur). Fedora's Copr build system also provides support for building packages for Rawhide. The OBS can also be used to build packages for rawhide, although it requires one to tweak the project configuration file (as opposed to adding the repository using the web interface of the OBS).

### Documentation
It has two main forms of documentation, one an [official handbook][514] and another unofficial pieces of documentation at the [*Fedora Wiki*][515]. The handbook has a fairly narrow scope, only referring to installation, networking, and select few other topics. The Fedora Wiki is nowhere near as comprehensive as the *Arch Wiki* or *Gentoo Wiki*, but it has a broader scope than the official handbook. I myself have contributed a few articles to it, to see my contributions see [this page][516].

### Closing remarks
Fedora is a Linux distribution that is best suited for intermediate-advanced users, especially software developers. Most notably, [Linus Torvalds][517], the original and lead developer of the Linux kernel is a Fedora user. It is ideal for users that:

* Like open-source software, but do not love it enough to use the Linux-libre kernel, but do not mind having proprietary repositories available should they wish to use them. If you have a preference for a system that is not quite so strict on open-source you may wish to install Chapeau instead, as it has out-of-the-box support for Broadcom wireless among other devices.
* Favour having the very latest the open-source world has to offer over the well-tested, conservative stability of distributions such as CentOS and Debian.
* Use CentOS, RHEL or derivatives thereof at work or elsewhere and want to use something similar, but more bleeding-edge at home.
* Want a distribution that patches its software as little as possible. Fedora is well-known in the open-source community to work with upstream developers, in the form of bug reports, and usually the only patches one will find packages have are designed to fix bugs reported upstream, until the next release of said software comes out with the bug fix. A notable exception is Vim, which they patch to give it out-of-the-box syntax-highlighting support for spec files and fstab (that is, /etc/fstab, which specifies how partitions should be mounted on the start up of a Linux system) files. 
* May require some free support. Fedora has its own Q & A website similar to Ask Ubuntu that is called [Ask Fedora][518]. I personally have used Ask Fedora and found it fairly good, usually one can expect a useful answer to simple questions within a day. I personally believe that Ask Ubuntu is a superior support site though, so if free technical support is really important to you, you may wish to use Ubuntu instead.

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
