## Gentoo Linux
{% include_relative infoboxes/07-gentoo.html %}

[**Gentoo Linux**][700] is an independent, source-based Linux distribution that was originally developed by a Canadian-born American programmer named Daniel Robbins. The date it was "founded" depends on what you mean by this. If you mean, "When was the idea of Gentoo born?" Or, "When did Daniel Robbins start working on it?" That would be in 1999, when it was originally known as Enoch Linux, although it was later this year renamed as Gentoo Linux, after the fastest species of penguin, the gentoo penguin (found in the Falkland Islands). It was not until 2002, however, that the first stable release of Gentoo became available. In 2004 Robbins left the Gentoo project apparently due to financial problems, although up until this time Robbins was the Benevolent Dictator for Life (BDFL) of Gentoo Linux. Then the Gentoo Foundation was founded and Gentoo's development became driven by a democratic-style process.{% include Links/fn.html no="10" %} 

Gentoo Linux's documentation (which is mostly located at the [*Gentoo Wiki*][701]) is second only to Arch Linux in terms of quality and comprehensibility, in my opinion, feel free to see it yourself and come to your own conclusions. I personally have found the Gentoo forums fairly helpful, although previous revisions of this post, said fairly unhelpful, but I have since changed this view after using Gentoo as my primary OS and hence used the forums a few more times. You can find all my Gentoo forum threads [here][702].  

### Package management
Gentoo, by default, uses its own package manager, Portage (which is primarily invoked from the command-line with the `emerge` command), that is so named because it is similar to FreeBSD's Ports system. Portage compiles and installs software from source code by following instructions in a specialized type of shell script known as an ebuild. These ebuilds are stored in repositories that are usually git-controlled and are referred to as overlays. Despite it serving as a source package manager by default, Portage can also install pre-built binary packages. [Calculate Linux][703] is a distribution derived from Gentoo Linux that despite using the Portage package manager works with binary packages by default. Despite Portage being the default package manager, the [Paludis][704] package manager can also be used by Gentoo. 

Paludis is the default package manager of [Exherbo][705], another source-based distribution. Like Portage, Paludis utilizes ebuilds as its packaging files (used to instruct the package manager how to build the package, in question), so Paludis should be able to use the same repositories. Paludis has a distinct syntax to that of Portage, but what is most interesting about Paludis is that it is written in C++ and is substantially faster (although given it still builds packages from source code it will invariably take a fairly long time to build packages). Just to try to make this entry more complete I gave Paludis a try on a Gentoo system. My initial impressions are that it is faster than Portage when it comes to dependency resolution, but at the same time it is also very verbose, giving far more information than I think most users will want to see with every command. 

The official Gentoo overlay is also known as the Portage tree and is stored on a Gentoo system in the `/usr/portage` directory. It is kept up-to-date using rsync and this is something I personally dislike as it means that you can only update your local copy of the Portage tree at most once a day, otherwise you will anger the mirror maintainers and they may blacklist you. You may think only the obsessive (with a pathological need to sync every hour or more) would care about this limit (as most people only update their local Portage tree copy far less frequently than once a day), but not necessarily. After a tree sync on 29 March 2017 (which I did due to a bug in the [app-text/hunspell][707] package that was resolved in a later revision of this package, for details see [bug 614178][706]) I learnt that the `dev-libs/mpc-1.0.3` package had invalid checksums in its Manifest (so it kept giving me an annoying error message telling me about this issue whenever I used Portage) and not being able to synchronize more often made this issue even more irritating. This is why, on 6 April 2017, I decided to switch from rsync to using git to keep my local copy of the Portage tree up-to-date, if anyone is interested in how I did this, I basically followed [this GitHub repository's][708] instructions. 

The Portage tree has looser licensing requirements than the official repositories of Arch Linux, CentOS, Debian, Fedora and many other distributions. Not only does it contain some proprietary firmware but it also contains some proprietary desktop applications such as [Google Chrome][709], [Opera][710], [RuneScape's NXT Client][711], [Spotify][712], [Vivaldi][713], *etc.* Unofficial overlays are installed via the official tool (that is, it is developed by the Gentoo Linux development team), [Layman][714], to `/var/lib/layman`.

ebuilds usually include USE flag and keyword fields. USE flags are essentially options that determine which features of the package provided by the ebuild are built and which are not. For example, the `gtk` USE flag, if enabled, would cause one's packages to be built with GTK+ 2 widget toolkit support. Likewise keywords tell one the stability of the ebuild on the various processor architectures Gentoo has been ported to. For example, the `amd64` keyword means that the ebuild is stable (and well-tested) on AMD64 (or x86-64) platforms. Likewise the `~x86` keyword means that the ebuild is unstable (or at least not adequately tested) on x86 (or 32-bit Intel processors) platforms.

Many packages, especially core packages like the Linux kernel sources package &mdash; [`sys-kernel/gentoo-sources`][715] &mdash; have several different available versions, often with alternate versions being provided from the same overlay. This is often when there are multiple different versions of the package still supported upstream (like in the case of LTS releases) and the older versions of the package are better tested (and hence more likely to be marked stable). By default, Portage favours the most up-to-date and stable packages when given a choice of package versions. So it will pick the ebuild with the highest version number among those ebuilds marked stable. By adjusting keyword settings in `/etc/portage/make.conf` one can switch from a "stable" system to a bleeding-edge system (for details [see this answer][716] to one of my questions at Unix & Linux StackExchange).

Portage is a complicated package manager to use too. Frequently Portage will complain of an error (most often a package or USE flag conflict) and exit, leaving the user to fix whatever is wrong. For advanced users, this is usually no problem, but for less sophisticated users it can be a deal-breaker. I used to hate Portage when I used Sabayon Linux for a few months as my primary OS. Mostly because it seemed like I always got errors from Portage whenever I tried to install packages. It took a fair bit of effort for me to learn the basics of Portage error-fixing. Nowadays while I do not have Sabayon installed on any of the partitions of my day-to-day PC, I still use Portage on a weekly basis (roughly), which is roughly how often I fire up my Gentoo Linux VirtualBox VM and update it using the commands:

{% include Code/coder.html line1="emerge --sync && layman -S" line2="emerge -uDN --with-bdeps=y @world" %}

Creating your own custom ebuilds for Gentoo is more challenging, in my opinion, than packaging for RPM-based distros or Arch Linux. This is partly because ebuilds have security features in place (restricting access to one's file system during the build), that while may make the building process safer, can also make it more annoying. For example, the Atom ebuild in the Portage tree is incredibly complicated (instead of using the default build system of Atom) mostly because simpler ebuilds (that do use Atom's default build system) give access violation errors and fail. Likewise there are several functions used in ebuilds (that are not usual shell script functions, but rather functions specifically defined for ebuilds) that you need to be familiar with in order to efficiently write a working ebuild. I have found them similar in difficulty to write as Debian packages are to build. I have created my own overlay for Funtoo (originally Sabayon), [`sabayon-tools`][717], which presently just contains one ebuild. I also have an overlay for both Funtoo and Gentoo Linux, [`fusion809-overlay`][718], which contains several other ebuilds. The OBS used to have support for building Gentoo and Sabayon packages, although it does not anymore. 

### Other source-based distributions
Gentoo Linux is one of only three independent, source-based Linux distribution I have successfully installed, the others being [Lunar Linux][719] and [Exherbo Linux][705]. Lunar, has a command-line automated installer, so I would argue it was far easier to install than Gentoo was. I have also attempted twice (and failed twice) to install [Linux From Scratch][11] (LFS) on a VM. LFS is an independent source-based distribution that is distinguished from Gentoo and other source-based distributions in that it has no package manager. All packages have to be compiled and installed manually by the user. Exherbo Linux is a distribution I have only managed to *successfully* install (which I define install it and being able to then boot it) in a KVM/QEMU VM running under Arch Linux, installing it in a KVM/QEMU or VirtualBox VM running on Gentoo Linux causes issues mentioned [here](https://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=82891&p=391850). 

#### Funtoo Linux
I have also successfully installed, in a VirtualBox VM, [Funtoo Linux][720], a source-based Gentoo derivative (and as it is a Gentoo derivative it is not an "independent" source-based distribution) that was first developed and is presently lead in its development by Daniel Robbins, the original developer of Gentoo Linux. I have also tried Funtoo outside a VM and it is not too bad. It is more conservative in its included software than a bleeding-edge Gentoo system, for example, as of 14 March 2017 it still has GNOME 3.20 as its latest available version of GNOME even though GNOME 3.22 has been in the Portage tree (of Gentoo) since December 2016. It is slightly more beginner-friendly than Gentoo, but I still would not recommend it to most beginners. It is slightly easier, in the sense that it uses a pre-compiled kernel by default, so it cuts that burden out for one, although beware you will likely have to perform a manual kernel upgrade sooner or later. I have found their user community, namely that found on the [#funtoo][721] IRC channel, rather friendly and helpful. Despite this their IRC channel, unlike the [#gentoo][722] channel, has no censorship (so profanities while rare can be used in the channel), the only thing that moderators of the channel will stop is fighting and probably also illegal activity in the channel. Funtoo Linux also uses git to manage its Portage tree, which is something I must say I like as it means you can sync as often as you want without irritating any mirror maintainers.

Intermediate and even beginners may be able to use Funtoo Linux if they take full advantage of the support in the [#funtoo][721] IRC channel and the official documentation. Using Gentoo is a little more challenging to use as the [Wiki guide to installation][723] can be a little overwhelming to new users, while I personally find the [Funtoo installation guide][724] incredibly simple to walk through. 

### Closing remarks
Ideal Gentoo users are advanced users that:

* Want a lot of freedom to customize their system to their liking.
* Are not open-source software-obsessed. Proprietary software riddles the Portage tree. The only Gentoo-based distribution that was FSF-approved for having proprietary software-free official repositories was [Ututo XS][725] (the official home page is in Spanish, so those not fluent in Spanish beware, as while Google Translate may help it is not perfect at translation), but in 2017 it became Ubuntu-based.
* Learn well by reading written documentation or already have plenty of experience with Portage.
* May need to install obscure pieces of software on the odd occasion (not absolutely necessary, but it would suit these users especially well). As Gentoo Portage overlays are very extensive it is likely that if one requires any obscure software one will be able to find it by searching [gpo.zugaina.org][726]. I would say Gentoo is second only to Arch Linux and distros derived from it, in terms of how easy it is to get any piece of software one wants.
* Are willing to wait a long time to setup one's system to one's liking. If one wants a desktop environment one will likely have to spend several hours (if not days) compiling the desktop environment components and their dependencies with Portage. Sabayon is an alternative for users that want most packages installed from binaries, but still wants Portage to be available for source installations. Calculate Linux is also a reasonable choice for users that want a quick installation. Calculate Linux, from my recollection, mostly has packages installed from binaries (which are installed by Portage), but as it uses Portage as its package manager source code installs should be possible. 

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
