## openSUSE
{% include_relative infoboxes/11-opensuse.html %}

[**openSUSE**][1100] is a popular Linux distribution that traces its origins back to the early 1990s, when a group of German computer science/mathematics students decided to create their own Linux system and sell it on floppy disks. They also founded a company to sell the floppy disks and called it S.u.S.E. (short for the German name *Software und System Entwicklung mbH*). Later the full name (from which the acronym was derived) was dropped but they kept the acronym and they changed it to SuSE, then later SUSE and finally to SUSE Linux. SUSE Linux was eventually acquired by Novell and, in 2005, the openSUSE Project was launched. Unlike SUSE (which is now defunct, and has been largely replaced with [SUSE Linux Enterprise Server][1101] (SLES) which was launched in 2001), openSUSE's development is open to the public (as opposed to being kept in-house at SUSE) and the public is encouraged to contribute (via submitting patches and bug reports).

### Package management
openSUSE's default package manager is [ZYpp][1102] (which is invoked by the command `zypper`), which has the official graphical front-end [YaST][1103]. ZYpp is a front-end to RPM, putting it in the same boat as DNF, urpmi and yum. ZYpp is unusual amongst Linux package managers in that it is written almost entirely in C++, most others are written in C, Python and/or Shell. My guess is the reason for the rarity of Linux package managers written in C++ is that Linus Torvalds hates the language, favouring C, among other languages. ZYpp is a rather fast package manager and is, in fact, faster than the other major RPM package management front-ends like DNF, urpmi and yum, all of which are predominantly written in interpreted languages (these are usually slower than compiled languages like C++) like Perl or Python (for further details see [this earlier post][1104]). It is so fast that it is second only to pacman, in terms of speed. 

YaST is not only ZYpp's official graphical front-end, it is also a general-purpose system administration utility and can be used for resizing, or otherwise modifying system partitions, adjusting start-up services (that is, services that run off systemd and as such start whenever the system is started), *etc.* YaST is also the installer of openSUSE, that is, the application one uses to install openSUSE to one's hard drive. It is written almost entirely in Ruby and I have personally found it quite stable, with a similar level of stability to Ubuntu's Ubiquity installer. 

As its name suggests openSUSE has a focus on open-source and its default, official repositories only contain open-source software (OSS), aside from the binary blobs on its kernel. A default installation of openSUSE does not include any proprietary software, except for the aforementioned kernel binary blobs. It does have a non-OSS official repository, but this repository does not contain all that many popular pieces of proprietary software and excludes Broadcom wireless drivers, for instance. For Broadcom wireless one will need to use the unofficial [PackMan repositories][1105]. The most popular pieces of software I can find in the non-OSS repository are probably Opera and Vivaldi, two lesser used proprietary web browsers. Vivaldi is similar to Google Chrome, but has an advantage over Google Chrome especially for openSUSE users, namely, that when one opens a one-click install link in this browser it will download it automatically, as opposed to Chrome which will merely show one the contents of the `.ymp` file one-click installs utilize. For further details about this issue see [this][1106] question on Linux & Unix StackExchange.

### Editions
openSUSE is also unusual in that it has two editions: a fixed release edition, Leap (which I will abbreviate as OL), and a rolling release edition, Tumbleweed (which I will abbreviate as OT). Leap was the original edition of openSUSE and is still the most popular. It is fairly conservative in terms of the age and stability of the software versions in its official repositories. Its releases usually use the latest LTS release of the kernel available at the time of the release. Presently the latest release of Leap is 42.2 (released in November 2016) and uses the 4.4.x kernel. The Tumbleweed edition attempts to be bleeding-edge, but is not as bleeding-edge as Arch Linux or a bleeding-edge Gentoo Linux system. Usually kernel updates come out so slowly that a new stable upstream release of the kernel will be out by the time the present version of the kernel is added to the official Tumbleweed repositories. OT is very easy to inadvertently break in my experience, I find that I can easily, yet inadvertently break it within a day of installing it.

Tumbleweed is unusual in the Linux world, as to my knowledge, other than its own derivative distributions (like Gecko Linux Rolling Edition), it is the only Linux distribution utilizing the RPM package manager that follows a bleeding-edge rolling release model. PCLinuxOS also follows a rolling release model and uses the RPM package manager but it is not bleeding-edge, in fact, they do not even claim to be bleeding-edge. 

### File systems
Leap and Tumbleweed both use the Btrfs file system by default, which automatically takes regular snapshots of your operating system. Whenever one wishes to revert to a snapshot one merely needs to use the snapper tool, further details on this tool can be found [here][1107]. Unfortunately, however, in order to use snapper one needs dbus to be working (so it cannot be run in a chroot), so it will not work allow one to rescue one's system from more serious bugs.

I have had an experience that might suggest that openSUSE Tumbleweed is more stable when installed on an ext4-formatted root partition instead of a Btrfs-formatted one. On my HP Envy 17 laptop I have installed OT several times using the default Btrfs file system. Usually these OT installations do not last any more than a fortnight before they become unusable to me. Usually (if not always, I do not recall anytime when this has not happened) after I first install OT on a Btrfs-formatted partition I reboot it and then install a few extra packages that I want. Most notably Atom, Docker (which I used to use to run RuneScape's NXT Client), git, GVim, Zsh, *etc.* When I reboot my OT installation (usually a day later, as I do tend to turn my PC off when I go to bed) a second time I find it very slow (or laggy, it was not infrequent for my system to freeze for a few seconds or even a few minutes at a time). I used to put up with the slowness, thinking this was just OT, even though most other distros went significantly faster than this. Usually OT becomes unusable to me after a while as it becomes too slow, simply will not boot to either a command-line or graphical interface in a reasonable amount of time (like less than minutes). 

On the 20th of February 2017, I decided to install OT on an ext4 formatted partition for a change, in the hope I would not get these issues again. My rationale was fixing disk errors with Btrfs is more complicated than fixing them on an ext4 partition (in which case one merely run `fsck` on the partition in question) and that ext4 is more popularly used by Linux distributions, so ideally it should be easier to use. Since I installed OT on this ext4 installation for some reason I have noticed my OT installation is running just as fast as it did when I first installed it (which is pretty fast) even though I must have rebooted it at least 10 times by now. The only thing besides the formatting of my partition that is different this time (hence a possible extra reason for why OT is not so slow) is that I have not installed Docker. The reason why no Docker is several-fold. Firstly, on my Btrfs-formatted partition installations I found that `systemd-analyze blame` showed that Docker added several seconds, if not minutes, to the start-up time of OT. Secondly, I found that after using Docker a few times to start RuneScape's NXT Client (RNC) I eventually got some most bizarre errors that seemed to indicate that my host system (OT) and the guest system I was running RNC from (Ubuntu 14.04) were getting confused. As when I ran: `cat /etc/os-release` from the Docker container I was running RNC in it returned output that was more indicative of openSUSE Tumbleweed (for details see [this thread][1108]). Lastly, I no longer need Docker to run RuneScape's NXT Client as I have installed Ubuntu 14.04 on my laptop, so I dual-boot OT and Ubuntu 14.04. This is relevant to how I could run RNC on OT in that I could now use a chroot to run RNC on OT instead of Docker. Namely I run:

{% include Code/codeu.html line1="xhost +" line2="sudo chroot /mnt /usr/local/bin/rsot" %}

where `/usr/local/bin/rsot` is a script on my Ubuntu 14.04 system with the contents:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
su - fusion809 -c "export DISPLAY=:0 && /usr/bin/runescape-launcher"
```

### Leadership
It is one of the most democratic Linux distributions in the world, that is, its development is more guided by the will of the users and developers than by an individual dictator. They have a [board][1109] for making some decisions, with the chair appointed by SUSE (or Novell, as SUSE is now a subsidiary of Novell) and the other 5 members appointed by the community. Most members of this board (except for one whom is in Portland in the U.S.) reside in central and eastern Europe. Other decisions are made by other community-guided mechanisms.

I should briefly mention that Novell made a deal with Microsoft in 2006, that has caused a lot of contention in the open-source community. It is supposedly to protect both companies from possible law-suits from one another, but still many open-source community members are less than pleased about this deal.{% include_relative includes/fn-inline.html no="11" %}

### The Open Build Service and SUSE Studio
I personally have successfully created over fifteen different packages for openSUSE using the Open Build Service, including one for [Blockify][1110] (and yes it is also built for Fedora in my OBS project) and another that provides the very latest [Vim][1111] (with [`vim-redhat`][1112] providing Vim for CentOS/Fedora/RHEL/Scientific Linux and [`vim-suse`][1113] for openSUSE/SLES). The download page for my Vim package can be found [here][113]. A list of my OBS packages can be found [here][1114].

The distribution is also rather unique (the only other distribution I am aware of with this capability is the related SLES distribution) in the Linux world in that it has a free online service one can use to create a custom ISO image for it. This service is known as SUSE Studio. This service was actually used to create the Gecko Linux distribution's ISO images. 

### Closing remarks
openSUSE is ideal for intermediate-advanced users that:

* Love open-source, but not enough to use the Libre kernel. I am afraid if you want an openSUSE-like distribution that uses a Libre kernel you are unlikely to find one, in fact I am completely unaware of any distribution that is openSUSE-based, or even openSUSE-like (where by "openSUSE-like" I mean at least uses the ZYpp package manager) that uses the libre kernel, if you know of one please do enlighten me. 
* Favour distributions with a relatively long fixed release cycle (one new minor release every year, and a major release every three or more years) or rolling release model.
* Like distributions that use the RPM package manager.
* Favour democratic distributions over authoritarian ones.
* Like/need distributions with fairly comprehensive, but not as comprehensive as say Arch Linux or Gentoo, repositories. This may include someone that likes to/needs to use obscure/proprietary pieces of software (e.g. Spotify), or people that perform reviews of several pieces of Linux software on a regular basis.
* Like packaging new/obscure pieces of open-source software. The Open Build Service (OBS) is more oriented towards openSUSE users (as it is, in fact, provided as a free public service of the openSUSE Project) and is easier to use on openSUSE than on other distributions. Far more pieces of software are packaged for openSUSE in the OBS than they are for other distributions. Beware though that the OBS only accepts open-source pieces of software, if you try to build proprietary software there odds are it will be eventually found and deleted by the admin of the OBS.
* Do not need out-of-the-box support for hardware with proprietary drivers only. For those that do need this support, [Gecko Linux][1115] is a distribution based on openSUSE (with both a fixed release and rolling release edition, just like openSUSE) with out-of-the-box support for proprietary device drivers like the Broadcom wireless drivers. 
* May require some free support. The [openSUSE Forums][1116] are usually quite helpful. Their response times are usually not quite as good as Ask Ubuntu, though, but they are usually adequate enough. Plus I have found the community more polite or at least slower to anger and negative assumptions than Arch Linux and Sabayon Linux's.
* May be interested in creating their own custom ISO image for openSUSE. 

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
