### Kernel
An operating system **kernel** is the piece of system software that manages all communication between a computer's hardware and its software. Most kernels also perform virtual memory allocation. Some of this virtual memory is allocated to the kernel (which is called **kernel mode**), the rest is allocated to the user's processes (or **user mode**, application software run in user mode). It is in many ways the operating system's brain, without it the OS will not work. There are three main types of operating system kernel, based on their respective design:

* **Hybrid kernel** &mdash; as its name suggest it is mid-way between the below designs. Examples include the kernels of OS X and Windows NT. Linus Torvalds, the lead and original developer of the Linux kernel, amongst others, believe that the **hybrid kernel** category is purely marketing and that these kernels fit quite easily into one of the following two categories.
* **Microkernel** (or **&mu;kernel**) &mdash; kernels that keep as few processes running in kernel mode as possible. They, as their name suggest, usually do the bare minimum needed of a kernel. Consequently, the number of lines of code in their source code is usually substantially less than their monolithic counterparts. Extreme variants of microkernels include nanokernels and picokernels, which have even fewer lines of source code. The most notable example is MINIX.
* **Monolithic kernel** &mdash; these are kernels that perform all operating system functions in kernel mode. They usually consist of far more lines of code than their microkernel counterparts. The most notable examples are the FreeBSD, Linux, NetBSD and OpenBSD kernels.

Microkernels are easier for software developers to work on and are supposedly more easily portable to additional instruction set architectures (ISAs). Despite this, the monolithic Linux kernel has been ported to the greatest number of ISAs of any operating system kernel.
