### Cross-Distribution Package Formats
A **cross-distribution package format** (**CDPF**; plural form is **CDPFs**) are a type of Linux software package format that are designed to run on most, if not all, Linux distributions. There are four main, distinct CDPFs I am aware of:

* [**AppImage**](http://appimage.org/) (previously known as **klik**), a type of self-mounting image file (created using SquashFS) that contains all the libraries, executables, desktop configuration files, icon files, *etc.* used by the application it provides. They need no root privileges in order to be run and need no special package manager of their own, as unlike most package formats they are *not* installed. They are distinct from other CDPFs as they are not installed and unlike binary archives they need not be extracted in order to be run. They merely need to be marked as executable (with `chmod +x`) and run (with `./<AppImage>` where `<AppImage>` is the name of the AppImage, including its file extension. I have built quite a few AppImages, usually with the help of [Simon Peter](https://github.com/probonopd), the creator of this package format.
* **Binary archives**, which have been aroud for decades are essentially archives (usually zipped or otherwise compressed) which contain all the libraries and executables required to run the program they provide on Linux. They need to be extracted in order for the program contained within to be run. SageMath and Scilab are both programs that are distributed like this.
* [**Flatpak**](http://flatpak.org/) (previously known as **xdg-app**), a package format best supported (but not officially supported by) by the Fedora (for example, the `flatpak` package is in the official Fedora repositories) Linux distribution and the GNOME desktop environment. Most GNOME applications are officially available as Flatpaks. GNOME Software (a graphical front-end for package management) also has support for Flatpaks as of the 3.22.0 release. Flatpaks are installed using a package manager also known as Flatpak and called by the command `flatpak`. As one can probably guess one has to install the Flatpak package manager using your distribution's respective package manager (e.g., APT, DNF, pacman, URPMI, Yum, ZYpp) in order to use it to install Flatpak packages. The only distributions I know of with Flatpak in its official repositories are: Arch Linux, Fedora and Manjaro Linux. CentOS, Debian, Gentoo, openSUSE and Ubuntu users have to use unofficial repositories in order to install it. Like most package managers, Flatpak requires administrative privileges in order to be run. Flatpaks are perhaps the most challenging package format to build, in my opinion.
* [**Snap**](http://snapcraft.io/), a package format officially developed by Canonical Ltd, the same company responsible for the development of the Ubuntu operating system. Like Flatpak it also requires its own package manager to be installed in order for one to run them. This package manager is written in Google's Go programming language (which was first publically released in 2009, so it is fairly new). Snap packages are built using a program called `snapcraft` which is written in Python. The source files used to tell `snapcraft` how to build Snap packages and the metadata to include with them are yaml files that often call on plugins (written in Python) in order to build the Snap package. I have never built a Snap package from scratch as I do not understand Python well enough to write my own plugins, but I have managed to create custom packages using existing source files.
