**Arch Linux** is my favourite Linux distribution (LD), especially when it comes to building packages. This is because the PKGBUILD format is very intuitive, simple and written in my favourite programming language &mdash; Shell. Writing a PKGBUILD also does not require an awful lot of preliminary knowledge, unlike the other Linux packaging source file written in Shell, that I have a fair amount of experience with, ebuilds. They (ebuilds) require you understand eclasses, in a fair degree of detail, in order to effectively and efficiently write them. The fact that Arch Linux package development only requires that you have a functioning PKGBUILD and does not require a whole intricate directory of syntactically-correct source files to be written by you, the packager, makes Arch Linux packages easier to develop compared to say Debian packages. The packaging source files they most closely resemble are SlackBuilds for Slackware packages, which I have fairly minimal experience with.

As a little aside, Shell is my favourite programming language as it is the one that is the most intuitive to me. I have found Python to be too touchy,[^1] and challenging to debug, while I have found JavaScript (JS) too non-intuitive and challenging to pick up. Granted, I work best by trying out some practical examples and the only examples I can come up with for myself, when it comes to JS and Python, are those in a previous area of study of mine &mdash; technical computing. Unfortunately, I have no clear concept of a program I want to write, besides from examples from technical computing, so it is challenging for me to feel motivated to keep persevering when trying to learn these languages and obstacles arise. If you have a way around this for me, that is free,[^2] I would love to hear it, so please email these suggestions to [brentonhorne77@gmail.com](mailto:brentonhorne77@gmail.com).
