<ol>
  <li>Search for the package in the <a href="https://packages.sabayon.org" target="_blank">Entropy Store</a>. If it is there, install it with Entropy (e.g., via running {% include Code/coders-rb.html line1="equo i &lt;PACKAGE&gt;" %}, if not, or if the package is unsuitable (due to the USE flags not being set properly) proceed to the next step.</li>
  <li>Search for the program in the <a href="https://packages.gentoo.org" target="_blank">Gentoo Overlay</a>. If it is there, install it with Portage (e.g., via running {% include Code/coders-rb.html line1="emerge -av &lt;PACKAGE&gt;" %}, otherwise, or if Portage fails due to errors, move onto the next step, or skip to the final step.</li>
  <li>Search for the program in any of the <a href="http://gpo.zugaina.org/" target="_blank">unofficial overlays</a> found in the Layman remote list. If it is, and the version number is acceptable add the containing overlay with
{% include Code/coder.html line1="layman -a &lt;OVERLAY&gt;" %}
then sync both Portage and Layman with (I also have this added as a function called <code>sync</code> in my <code>~/.bashrc</code> script)
{% include Code/coder.html line1="emerge --sync && layman -S" %}
and then emerge the package with
{% include Code/coder.html line1="emerge -av &lt;PACKAGE&gt;" %}
otherwise I proceed to the next step. If the package fails to merge properly I may fork the ebuild into my own personal overlay, <a href="https://github.com/fusion809/sabayon-tools" link="_blank"><code>sabayon-tools</code></a>, try to fix it and try to merge it again. Alternatively, if the ebuild version available from an overlay (including the Portage Tree) is lower than that which I want I may also fork the ebuild into my overlay.
<br/>
If the package has several dependencies I try to install as many as possible with Entropy, before I emerge the remaining dependencies and <code>&lt;PACKAGE&gt;</code> itself. Often using pretend instead of ask options (<code>emerge -pv...</code> instead of <code>emerge -av...</code>) will be helpful if you want a list of packages to install with Entropy. Sometimes emerge will say you need to adjust your USE flags (stored in <code>/etc/portage/package.use/</code>), package keywords (stored in <code>/etc/portage/package.keywords</code>), list of accepted software licenses (stored in <code>/etc/portage/make.conf</code>) and alike to install the package you want.</li>

  <li>If all else fails, get the source code and try compiling and installing it yourself (be warned, however, this is at least as dangerous as installing the program with Portage. Sometimes you cannot uninstall programs installed manually from source code, as opposed to Entropy and Portage-installed programs which are easy to uninstall). This step is last, because this step is very error prone if, like me, you do not know an awful lot about compiling software or programming, in general. This step depends on the instructions in any INSTALL or README file included with the source code. If these files do not exist I use my knowledge on common compiling methods to install the software. For example, if the source code is written in C/C++ often there will be an <code>autogen.sh</code> or <code>configure</code> file somewhere in the source code base directory, which I will run (usually by opening up a terminal emulator and running {% include Code/codeus.html line1="./&lt;FILE&gt;" %} where <code>&lt;FILE&gt;</code>; is either autogen.sh or configure)) and read the output of. If the output includes an error, concerning some missing dependency, I will try to install said dependency (following the same algorithm outlined here) and re-run the autogen.sh/configure script or if the dependency is on my PC already I will try giving the <code>autogen.sh</code> or <code>configure</code> file a <code>PATH</code> variable pointing to the dependency's location on my system when I re-execute them. If no errors are encountered when running these scripts, or I manage to fix them with the methods I just mentioned I then run
  {% include Code/codeu.html line1="make" line2="sudo make install" %}
  While if the source code is written in Python I look for a setup.py file and run
  {% include Code/coder.html line1="python setup.py install" %}</li>
  <li>If errors are encountered at any of these steps (by errors I do not include the absence of available software packages as errors) I would also recommend you attempt to seek support. For example, if the failure happened with an added unofficial overlay I would recommend you find the GitHub repository that houses the overlay and create a new issue for said repository. This process of getting support often occurs quite slowly, taking several days, at least, to get any solution to the problem, so if failures happen I would probably move onto the next step of this algorithm (if there are any steps left) before I would report the failures.</li>
</ol>
