#### Enlightenment
{% include Links/image.html image="Enlightenment/Enlightenment-20.1.png" width="1140px" description="Enlightenment 20.1, the latest release of Enlightenment as of 24 December 2015." float="none" %}
{% include Links/links.html package="x11-wm/enlightenment" program="Enlightenment" link="https://www.enlightenment.org" wp="Enlightenment (software)" gw="Enlightenment" %} is a free and open-source (BSD Licensed) feature-packed window manager that had its initial release in 1997. This initial release was dubbed Enlightenment DR16 and later in December 2012 (after 12 years of development) the DR17 series of Enlightenment had its first stable release. Both series (DR16 and DR17) are still under active, independent development. DR16 releases tend to be lighter weight (taking up less system resources) than their corresponding DR17 releases, although DR17 released are usually more feature-packed and aesthetically pleasing (or at least in my opinion). The DR17 series itself has its own set of branches: E17 (the original stable DR17 release in December 2012), E18 (released December 2013), E19 (released September 2014) and E20 (released November 2015).

As of {{ page.date | date: "%d %B %Y" }} the latest release of the DR16 series is present in the Portage Tree and Entropy repositories, although the E20 branch of the DR17 series is yet to be added to either repository. The latest releases of the Enlightenment libraries (namely 1.16.0 for all of these packages): {% include Links/links.html package="dev-libs/efl" program="EFL" wp="Enlightenment_Foundation_Libraries" puncr="," %} {% include Links/links.html package="media-libs/elementary" program="elementary" puncr="," %} {% include Links/links.html package="media-plugins/evas_generic_loaders" program="evas generic loaders" %} and {% include Links/links.html package="media-plugins/emotion_generic_players" program="emotion generic players" puncr="," %} are also missing from the Portage Tree and Entropy repositories. I wanted to try out Enlightenment 20 (E20) on my Sabayon machine, to do so I had two options:

* Manually compile and install E20 and the latest Enlightenment libraries from source code.
* Write my own ebuilds for each package and use them to install E20 and its dependencies missing from the Entropy repositories, which are the Enlightenment libraries.

I originally opted for the first of these two options, but I eventually decided to give the second option a try as it would help other users of Gentoo-based Linux distributions such as Sabayon, due to the fact I would keep these ebuilds in my [`sabayon-tools`](https://github.com/fusion809/sabayon-tools) overlay. To write the required ebuilds I essentially bumped the ebuilds already present in the Portage Tree, namely (where &rarr; indicates the bumping I did):

* `dev-libs/efl-1.15.2` &rarr; `dev-libs/efl-1.16.0`
* `media-libs/elementary-1.15.2` &rarr; `media-libs/elementary-1.16.0`
* `media-plugins/emotion_generic_players-1.15.0` &rarr; `media-plugins/emotion_generic_players-1.16.0`
* `media-plugins/evas_generic_loaders-1.15.0` &rarr; `media-plugins/evas_generic_loaders-1.16.0`
* `x11-wm/enlightenment-0.19.12` &rarr; `x11-wm/enlightenment-0.20.0` &rarr; `x11-wm/enlightenment-0.20.1`

tested them out in a Sabayon chroot and made the adjustments that seemed necessary in order for them to build correctly. One adjustment I made to all of them is to set the  `RESTRICT="mirror"` variable, as not one of these packages are hosted by the Gentoo mirrors yet. I also noticed that I needed to adjust the USE flags of `dev-libs/efl-1.16.0` in order for it to build properly. After making these adjustments all five packages are building fine and I even had a Gentoo user on the {% include Links/irc.html channel="gentoo" %} IRC channel build them successfully on their system.
