#### SuperTux
{% include Links/image.html image="Games/Supertux-checkpoint.png" description="SuperTux 0.3.3" float="none" width="800" height="600" %}

{% include Links/links.html package="games-arcade/supertux" program="SuperTux" link="http://supertux.github.io/" wp="SuperTux" gr="SuperTux/supertux" %} is a free and open-source (licensed under GNU GPLv3) 2D platform game that was first released in April 2003. Its gameplay is very similar to that of the proprietary game, Super Mario Bros. The initial 2003 release was called "Milestone 1" (or if you would prefer a version number 0.1.3) and is the version of SuperTux that is currently available in the Entropy Store and the Portage Tree. I have installed this version with Entropy, using:
{% include Code/coder.html line1="equo i games-arcade/supertux" %}
This game is enjoyable, giving several hours of entertainment for me at least. Despite this, due to my preoccupation with using the latest software available, I looked to install the latest version of SuperTux (which are developmental, but still fairly stable, versions of Milestone 2 (or SuperTux 2) which is due to be released in December 2015). I tried installing it using the unofficial [`yarik-overlay`](https://github.com/yarikmsu/yarik-overlay) and while this succeeded I found the most stable version provided by it (0.3.4) plagued by bugs. To do this I ran:
{% include Code/coder.html line1="layman -a yarik-overlay" line2="emerge --sync && layman -S" line3="emerge -av supertux" %}
So after this, I decided to give manually building and installing it myself, a go. Then I got the [latest tarball source code release](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/releases/download/v0.3.5a/supertux-0.3.5a.tar.bz2) (`tar -xvf supertux-0.3.5a.tar.bz2` should do this from the command-line), decompressed it, changed into the supertux-0.3.5a directory and ran:
{% include Code/codeu.html line1="mkdir build" line2="cd build" line3="cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr" line4="make" line5="sudo make install" %}
this ran without error and the resulting SuperTux 2 installation (which by-the-way I have managed to keep on my system despite never removing my SuperTux 1 Entropy installation) was less buggy. Later, I replaced this installation with the latest git release of SuperTux, via running:
{% include Code/codeu.html line1="git clone https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux" line2="cd supertux" line3="mkdir build && cd build" line4="cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr" line5="make" line6="sudo make install" %}
and surprisingly (because git snapshots are usually less stable than tarball pre-releases) it had even fewer bugs than manually compiled SuperTux 0.3.5a. There was one bug that stayed quite persistently, however, after compiling the source code manually &mdash; after a while SuperTux2 would not launch (even when run from the command-line) and the error message it gave was related to `SDL_BASEPATH` not being set. Reinstalling `libsdl2` with Entropy solved this problem, for some reason. In an attempt to overcome this error more permanently I  have created an ebuild for the latest git snapshot of SuperTux {% include Sabayon/stebuild-bc.md ebuild="games-arcade/supertux/supertux-9999" link="games-arcade/supertux-9999" %} installed it, although it seems this has not permanently fixed this problem and occasionally I still have to reinstall `libsdl2`.

##### External links
* [User Manual](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/wiki/User-Manual)
