## i3
{% include_relative infobox-desktop.html wm="i3" wm="i3" size="1310 KiB" ram="9.2 MiB" screenshot="https://fusion809.github.io/images/desktop-environments/i3-4.14.1-my-configs-27-Sep-2017.png" screenshot_caption="i3 4.14.1 running on Arch Linux, with my own personal configs" logo="i3.png" github="i3/i3" arch="i3" gentoo="i3" wp="i3 (window manager)" type="Tiling window manager" devfor="N/A" developer="Michael Stapelberg and <a href='https://github.com/i3/i3/graphs/contributors' link='_blank'>various contributors</a>." channel="i3" ds="Xorg" language="C" website="https://i3wm.org" website-pretty="i3wm.org" license="<a href='https://raw.githubusercontent.com/i3/i3/next/LICENSE' link='_blank'>BSD 3-clause</a>" date="2009" %}

**i3** is a lightweight, fast, highly configurable, well-documented, minimalist tiling window manager for the X windowing system. It is my favourite window manager because it lightweight, fast, simple, ubiquitous and is customized using shell script (or at least a shell script-like language) and optionally Python using [i3pystatus](https://github.com/enkore/i3pystatus/). Shell script is a language I am rather fluent in, while Python is a language I know enough to get by if I need to. Rather few distributions do not have i3 in their official repositories, those that do not usually have it in an unofficial repository, however. It is also available for other *nixes like the *BSDs.

Its development was first started in 2009, by a German programmer named Michael Stapelberg, since then Stapelberg has remained as its chief developer, although several have contributed to its development (mostly by means of [pull requests](https://github.com/i3/i3/pulls) and [bug reports](https://github.com/i3/i3/issues)). It is the most popular tiling window manager, in my experience, which is based mostly on conversations in IRC channels, along with polls (across the past few years) on desktop environment and window manager popularity. Slant.co also has a [poll](https://www.slant.co/topics/390/~best-window-managers-for-linux) on window managers and a few desktop environments thrown in erroneously that comes to the same conclusion about its popularity. Although I have also come across awesome and bspwm users. 

### Availability
As said most distributions have packages for it in their official repositories, those that do not usually have it in at least an unofficial repository, which is the case for Slackware, for example. The beauty of i3 is that since it is written in C and only has a small number of dependencies it can be easily compiled on other distributions. If you would like to build it on a distribution that, for some reason or another, does not have the version of i3 you require (or none at all) [here](https://build.i3wm.org/docs/hacking-howto.html) is a building guide. A list of the dependencies can be found [here](https://github.com/i3/i3/blob/next/DEPENDS). Overall I would rate it 9 out of 10 for availability, because firstly, it in the repositories of most distributions and secondly, it should be easily to build it if you do find one without a package for it in their official repositories. 

### Beginner-friendliness
i3 is configured via a shell script-like configuration file, so while it is not configured in a way that is accessible to all Linux users, it is at least written in a language that should be second nature to advanced, long-term Linux users. i3 is not really usable out-of-the-box unless one knows or has some way of accessing the list of default keyboard shortcuts without being able to access the web browser from i3. One can access the browser after one learns the keyboard shortcuts, of course, but if one does not know them one will not have a chance of accessing the web browser from within i3. This is one of the reasons why it took me some time before I had the courage and boredom to be willing to give i3 a try. 

### Customization
i3 is customized by editing files in {% include Layouts/path.html path="~/.i3" puncr="," %} or {% include Layouts/path.html path="~/.config/i3" puncr="," %} depending on personal preference. I use {% include Layouts/path.html path="~/.i3" puncr="," %} but {% include Layouts/path.html path="~/.config/i3" %} is also a perfectly valid place to store one's configuration files for i3. The chief configuration file in these directories is called {% include Layouts/path.html path="config" puncr="." %} All other configuration files are mentioned in it. In it one can set keyboard shortcuts, including for launching programs (e.g. <kbd>Super</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F</kbd> is what I use to launch Firefox nightly &mdash; my default web browser), set window title fonts and sizes, 

I would rate its customizability as 8 out of 10. 

### Stability
i3 is very stable, on both platforms I have used it on. I have never experienced a bug with it, well at least not one I have noticed. I would rate its stability as being &ge;8 out of 10. Only an eight as I have not used it for long enough, or on enough platforms to be confident as to this rating. 

### System resource usage
i3 has a small installed size (1310 KiB) and fairly low RAM usage (9.2 MiB; note: this does include i3bar's RAM usage, by itself i3 uses just 5.1 MiB), although both are larger than some window managers. 

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
