{% capture heading %}## antiX{% endcapture %}{{ heading | markdownify }}
{% include_relative os-shot.html image="antiX-15.png" width = "768px" float="none" description="antiX 15 running in VirtualBox, with its default desktop" %}

### Background
{% include_relative os.md os="antiX" d="http://antix.mepis.org/index.php?title=Main_Page#Downloads" url="http://antix.mepis.org/index.php?title=Main_Page" forum="http://antix.freeforums.org/" dw="antix" wp="antiX" %} is a lightweight Linux distribution based on Debian's 'Testing' branch for 32-bit (i486 or better) and 64-bit systems. It is essentially designed to be a lightweight distribution as it uses the IceWM window manager as its default user interface. I have found it fairly user-friendly with a graphical installer and a fresh install takes up less than 3 GB hard disk drive (HDD) space. A fresh install can also work with as little as 128 MB RAM, although a minimum of 256 MB is recommended. Compared to more popular Linux distributions such as its parent Debian, its own documentation is fairly minimal, although as it is a Debian derivative the documentation of Debian should suffice in most cases. Since it is built on the testing branch of Debian its system software is usually bleeding edge, in terms of how up-to-date it is.

{% include_relative specs.md arch="x86 (i486 or better), x86_64." shell="Bash." type="Linux." PMS="APT." ui="IceWM." IM="Booting from live medium and then using the Debian-Installer." date="2010." country="Greece." rm="Rolling." tm="Old computers and users that like to have the latest software." base="Debian (Unstable)." %}

{% include_relative os-min.md cpu="i486." ims="222 MB." ram="128 MB. ≥256 MB preferable." hdd="~2.5 GB." %}

{% include_relative os-ratings.md BF="8. Fairly beginner-friendly." ob="<6. Seems no more out-of-the-box than Debian, probably less due to its minimalism." CMB="8. A core-libre version is available, which contains the bare minimum software, on it you can build your own custom system." doc="2. Very little original documentation exists for antiX." sup="? I've never had to use their support." pm="7. Uses tools it borrows from Debian, which in my opinion are not very impressive." oa="8. It is OK, but I always feel it is like using a treehouse for your office &mdash; it is too minimalistic for it to be appropriate. Although, if I had the time and inclination to install all the software I wanted, I could make it more to my liking." sru="9. Fairly lightweight, by default." sb="7-8. I have never had any stability issues with it myself, probably because I have not used it enough to, but it is based on the testing branch of Debian, hence it is inevitable that it will be more buggy than Debian (Stable)."  mewi="2." %}
