## openSUSE
{% include_relative os-shot.html image="openSUSE-42.1-desktop-screenshot-appmenu.png" float="none" description="Screenshot of openSUSE 42.1 with its default wallpaper." width="1130px" %}

### Background
{% include_relative os.md os="openSUSE" url="https://www.opensuse.org/" d="https://software.opensuse.org/" dw="opensuse" wp="openSUSE" wiki="https://en.opensuse.org/Main_Page" forum="https://forums.opensuse.org/forum.php" ml="https://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:Mailing_lists" irc="https://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:IRC_list" docs="http://doc.opensuse.org/" gr="openSUSE" %} is a German Linux distribution that is the free continuation of S.u.S.E., a Linux distribution first founded in the early 1990s by a group of German mathematics university students. openSUSE is a community project sponsored by Novell, Inc. an American multinational company. openSUSE is used as the open-source basis of the commercial SUSE Linux Enterprise (SLE) product sold by Novell. openSUSE is unique amongst Linux distributions in that both fixed release model versions (e.g., 13.1, 13.2 and 42.1) and a rolling release model version (called Tumbleweed) is available of the OS. Of these the fixed release model versions are usually more popular amongst users, but the Tumbleweed version is not too unpopular either.

{% include_relative os-shot.html image="openSUSE-42.1-YaST2-running.png" width="1130px" float="none" description="YaST2 running on openSUSE 42.1" %}
Internationally openSUSE is one of the most popular Linux distributions, with it currently being ranked 4th by the *DistroWatch* website for popularity. openSUSE's good points include the fact it is fairly user-friendly, with one of the most powerful graphical PMS front-ends, YaST2, plus openSUSE has the [openSUSE Build Service](https://build.opensuse.org/) (OBS), which is essentially the openSUSE equivalent to Arch's PKGBUILDs and the AUR, providing thousands of unofficial binary packages for users to install. OBS has an advantage over the AUR too because it contains binary packages which are simpler and faster to install than PKGBUILDs.

Novell signed a deal with Microsoft in 2006, which was meant to improve on compatibility between free and open-source programs and Microsoft's proprietary programs, that has lead to significant contention in the FOSS community. This is because, in general, the FOSS community has a great deal of disdain for big software companies like Microsoft and this agreement seemed more like Novell selling out to Microsoft, than anything else. Further criticism of openSUSE has been focused on the belief that the system is a little &ldquo;bloated&rdquo;. What I interpret this to mean is that the live DVD ISO file used to install openSUSE without relying on one's network too much is larger (namely 4.7 GB for 42.1) than what one would expect based on the size of similar Linux distribution's live media. That and the fact that the system contains several unnecessary packages that while intended to make the system more &ldquo;out-of-the-box&rdquo; add unnecessary size to the system.

### Installer
openSUSE uses YaST2 for system installation as well as package management post-installation. I have attempted to install openSUSE Tumbleweed on my removable drive. Due to package integrity issues, however, the YaST2 installer failed to install the system properly (only one package was affected an xorg font package, I have forgotten its exact name, so I got it to ignore this error and continue on with the installation). Then when I booted this installation of openSUSE it failed to launch the graphical user interface (KDE Plasma 5, I later reattempted the installation and got the GNOME desktop, neither managed to launch). I checked the checksum of the live DVD ISO that I used to install openSUSE and it matched what it should have, so I personally have not the foggiest why this failure occurred. I also noticed that my Broadcom chipset was not properly supported by this openSUSE installation.

### Package Management
openSUSE uses [**ZYpp**](https://github.com/openSUSE/zypper) ([`zypper`](https://fusion809.github.io/man/zypper.8.html) from the command-line) for package management which installs software from RPM binary packages. ZYpp (not including any of its libraries, just zypper) is written in C++ (96.1%), Perl (1.3%), Bash script (1.1%), C (0.9%), *etc.*[^5] Over 14,000 binary packages are in the software repositories of openSUSE 42.1. Here is an example Bash script for automating some common actions with ZYpp.

{% include_relative zypp-scripts.md %}

{% include_relative specs.md arch="x86_64 (standard). armhf, i586, x86_64 (Tumbleweed)." origin="Germany." date="&lt;1996. Depends on the point at which one considers openSUSE to have been born." ui="GNOME, KDE, IceWM, LXDE, Xfce, etc." im="Graphical, using live media." type="Linux." pm="ZYpp." rm="Fixed (standard releases), Rolling (Tumbleweed)." tm="Users that prefer to an OS that works &ldquo;out-of-the-box&rdquo;." %}

{% include_relative os-min.md cpu="Pentium 4 @ 1.6 GHz." ram="1024 MB, 2048 MB recommended." hdd="3 GB, 5 GB for a graphical desktop." ims="85 MB (x86_64, NET edition)." %}

{% include_relative os-ratings.md bf="8-9." cmb="7." ob="7. Out-of-the-box support exists, but proprietary firmware for Broadcom chipset does not come-preinstalled and this can really muck up installation attempts." doc="&gt;8. Pretty extensive documentation." sup="? Only used their forums once and the support I got fixed the problem." pm="&gt;8. I actually rather like ZYpp and YaST2." sru="5. Fairly bloated, especially when using the usual desktops, GNOME/KDE." sb="8. I have found it fairly stable since the release of 42.1." mewi="7. I have a fair degree of experience with it on VirtualBox VMs." oa="9. I love Tumbleweed." %}
