## Distribution difficulty
I have ranked the distributions I have tried by how challenging they are to set up and use on a scale from 0 to 5. 0 are beginner-friendly distributions no more challenging to set up and use than Windows. I am unaware of any distribution that is exactly 0 on this scale. 1 are beginner-friendly distributions that are usually as easy as Windows to install, but may be a little more challenging to use post-install for beginners. Ubuntu is an example of a distribution with a difficulty score of 1. 2 have automated installers and may be as easy to set up as Windows, but post-installation they are significantly more challenging to use than Windows. Usually due to things like bugs, small repositories, poor out-of-the-box support for devices with proprietary drivers and/or difficult package management. 3 have no automated installers, but have a simple installation process, are usually installed from the command-line. Initial system configuration post-install is done from the command-line. Package management is not too easy for beginners, but it also is not too complex. Alternatively some distributions may fit this category that have an installer but with very complicated package management. 4 have no automated installer and a complicated installation process and are installed from the command-line. The package manager is complicated and builds from source by default. 5 is Linux From Scratch (LFS). 

1 includes: Ubuntu and most of its derivatives like Linux Mint. Along with Chapeau, deepin, Korora, Manjaro Linux, Q4OS and Sabayon Linux. 
2 includes: CentOS, Debian, Fedora, Mageia, OpenMandriva, openSUSE and TrueOS. These are operating systems not really designed specifically for beginners, although they do have graphical installers and package managers available. Their main shortcoming, except for in the case of TrueOS, is how open-source strict they are. This means that if you need proprietary WiFi drivers you will likely need an ethernet cable to install the drivers, which is a pain and finding the right drivers can also be irritating and difficult for beginners. TrueOS appears here due to hardware support issues. 
3 includes: Arch Linux, NixOS, Parabola GNU/Linux and Slackware Linux. May have an installer of sorts (pacstrap, in a sense, is this for Arch; nixos-install for NixOS; and Slackware's installer), but they are accessed via the command-line and a base system for all but NixOS and Slackware is minimalist, by default. NixOS is a real pain in the rear end to set up, unless you are used to functional programming, or used to using NixOS. Slackware has tiny repos, so usually you will have to build some packages manually from the SlackBuilds repo (their equivalent to Arch's AUR, but it is much smaller). 
4 includes: Exherbo Linux, FreeBSD, Funtoo Linux and Gentoo Linux. All but FreeBSD have no automated installer; FreeBSD has one but set up tends to be more difficult than it is with Linux and it has poorer hardware support. 
5 is mostly just LFS. 
