This distribution has more outdated software than Fedora and Tumbleweed yet there is some part of me that likes it more than both. The reason why is several fold:

* It has out-of-the-box support for my Broadcom WiFi chip (BCM4352), which is not too common among distributions and is a nice touch.
* Has out-of-the-box support for using fingerprints to sign in.
* It has several extra applications that its basis, Debian (unstable), simply does not have (e.g. Atom and Visual Studio Code). Many of which are there because users requested them ([here](https://bbs.deepin.org/forum.php?mod=viewthread&tid=133777) is the forum thread where you can), or because deepin's developers just thought its users might like it (cannot rule out the possibility they are paid some sort of commission with some of the proprietary applications like Spotify though, since deepin is developed by a company). It also has a far more up-to-date version of Eclipse than its basis Debian (unstable) has. Debian (all branches) uses a really ancient (by computing standards) version of Eclipse, namely version 3.8.1 which was released in 2012! deepin, however, at the time of writing (11 December 2017) has version 4.7.0, which is one bug fix release short of being the latest (4.7.1).
* While their site could do with a little extra "internationalization" as some parts are still in Chinese regardless of the language you have selected to view the site in, it is clear they are trying and doing fairly well.
* It comes with the single most popular web browser on the desktop/laptop: Google Chrome, instead of most distribution's default, Firefox. Firefox is used by most other distributions not so much because their developers think that it will be what most of their users are used to using but because it is open-source. deepin's developers decided to focus more on making its users happy than keeping to the idea that distributions should be as open-source as possible. I personally favour Firefox, but I like the fact they are putting users first over ideology.
* They have several home-grown open-source applications they have developed just to make their users like it and enjoy their experience with it. This includes their desktop environment (DE), sure they have borrowed some components of GNOME but their DE is still quite distinct from all other DEs. Frankly I would call it the single most innovative Debian-based distribution I am aware of. Even more so than Ubuntu.

The only thing I dislike about it is that you cannot choose to use the Btrfs file system from its installer and I have been experimenting with it lately.

