## Ratings
Each section (each focusing on a separate DE/WM) has a subsection wherein I give numerical ratings to give a summary as to the various properties of the DE/WM, and often I will also include a comment as to why I gave such a rating. These ratings are from 0 to 10 and each, except for the *overall* rating, are independent of one another. For example, *customizability* refers to the DE/WM's customizability, without taking into account how easy it would be for a newcomer to customize it, just how customizable it is to an experienced user that knows what they are doing. These properties are:

* **Availability**: how easy is it to get this DE/WM on the more popular Linux distros.
* **Beginner-friendliness**: how easy is it for a Linux newcomer to get the "hang" of this DE/WM without any prior knowledge or experience with technology.
* **Customizability**: how extensively, can this DE/WM be customized?
* **Features**: how feature-packed is this DE/WM? If it has a core applications suite this would count in its favour here.
* <abbr title="My Experience With It">**MEWI**</abbr>: how much experience do I have with it, personally. This is included to give one a gage on how much weight should be attached to my opinion and comments of the DE/WM. If I have hardly even used the DE/WM there is a greater chance that some of my comments or my opinion, may not be quite as accurate as it would be if I had more experience with it.
* **Stability**: how stable is this DE/WM? Is it possible for me to use it long-term without it crashing on me?
* **Support**: how good is the available support and documentation for this DE/WM? Like does it have its own wiki or manual and if so, how good is its quality? Does it have its own distribution-independent forums or support channels? An acronym relevant to this section is DIS or distribution-independent support.
* **System Resource Usage** (**SRU**): how much RAM, disk space and CPU does this DE/WM chew up? Yet again I will be using `ps_mem` to assess RAM usage, although this time I will be assessing RAM usage only on an Arch Linux VM. Each X11 desktop environment or window manager, I started using xinit and not a display manager. As for the disk space used and download size of the package, I will be making broad statements. It would take a fair amount of time to determine the download size and installed size on the Linux various platforms mentioned in this post, so rather I just look at the installed and download size on a few platforms and make broad statements based on these figures.
* **Overall**: do I like this DE/WM?
