## History
Vim's story starts in the mid 1970s when Bill Joy, a famous programmer known for his role in the development of the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD), an early version of the Unix operating system and his role in co-founding the company Sun Microsystems, developed the proprietary vi editor for Unix. As vi was proprietary-licensed its source code was not publicly available until in 2002 when its source was released under an open-source BSD license. Fortunately, it was sufficiently simple for some open-source clones (different source code, but the program is much the same in what it does) of it to be made before its open-sourcing in 2002, including the early Stevie editor which was first published in 1987. The original Stevie editor was made by Tim Thompson and it was only compatible with Atari ST, a family of personal computers. Tony Andrews then ported Stevie to Amiga, OS/2 and Unix and added a few features, publishing his port under an open-source license in June 1988. The original Stevie and Andrews' port of Stevie was very basic, missing several of the original vi commands, and had issues with bugs (especially, with respect to undoing edits).{% include Footnotes/fn-inline.html no1="1" no2="2" %}

Later this year Bram Moolenaar started work on his own fork of Stevie with several extra features, including multi-level undo (that is, you can undo more than one edit at a time) and redo, several extra vi commands and bugs fixed. He named it Vim (short, originally, for Vi IMitation, but later from version 1.22 and later for Vi IMproved) and it was originally intended just for Moolenaar's personal use but in 1991 its first public, open-source release (version: 1.14) was published. It was originally distributed via floppy disks sent to users via the mail, they were only charged for the floppy disks themselves. In 1992 version 1.22 was released by Moolenaar and the notable improvement was that it included ports, by another contributor, Jeurgen Weigert, to MS-DOS, SunOS and Linux. In 1993 Moolenaar travelled to Uganda in July and December and on the 21st of December 1993 he published version 2.0 of Vim, with horizontal scrolling, wrapping text and a few new commands were added to the editor, the most notable one being `:make`. Version 2.0 was the first release licensed under a charityware license that was compatible with the GNU General Public License and requested (but did not *require*) that users donate to help needy children in Uganda.{% include Footnotes/fn-inline.html no1="1" no2="2" %}

As the latest major release of Vim is 8.0 I do not have the time and inclination to list every change between each version from 2.0 to 8.0, for some fairly vague details of the changes between version 2.0 to 6.0 see [this](http://www.free-soft.org/FSM/english/issue01/vim.html) article written by Bram Moolenaar. For greater details about the changes between version 4.0 and 8.0 see the `version[4-8].txt` (so see `version4.txt` for the differences between version 3.0 and 4.0, likewise see `version8.txt` for differences between 7.4 and 8.0 and as 8.0 is the present release of Vim there are also mentions of the presently available patches of Vim 8.0) files, also written by Moolenaar, in [this directory](https://github.com/vim/vim/tree/master/runtime/doc) of Vim's source code repository. The most notable changes were that:

* In 3.0 multiple buffers and windows were supported. That is, one could have multiple buffers and windows of Vim opened at one time. 
* 4.0 was the first release to have a graphical user interface (GUI) available, which is known as GVim.
* 5.0 was the first release in which Vim had its own scripting language, although back in this release the scripting language was rather basic. It also had syntax-highlighting. 
* 6.0 split views, plugins (written in Vim script) and multi-language support was added.
* 7.0 spell checking and code auto-completion.

While Moolenaar is the lead developer of Vim and the Benevolent Dictator for Life (BDFL) of the project numerous others have contributed to Vim, including [myself](https://github.com/vim/vim/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20author%3Afusion809), although my contributions are limited to bug reports/feature requests I filed. 
