## Learning Vim
As Vim is not an intuitive text editor it is important that people are taught how to use it. Vim is not something most people will pick up and be fluent in after a single attempt to learn it. Vim is a tool I, for one, took weeks of continuous use (and as I use an editor more often than I eat or drink this equates to hundreds of times I used it) to even get to a decent level of fluency. I do not even pretend to be as fluent in Vim as many are, there are probably people that have used it, or vi, since childhood or adolescence, several decades ago that are far more fluent in it than I am. There are several methods by which people can learn Vim, only you as an individual know how you best learn so what I will do in this section is outline some methods by which people may learn Vim. One way to reduce the learning curve of Vim is to use GVim. It is easier to use GVim as it has menus that tell one the keybindings of the editor and allow one to use them without having to type them in manually. Bare in mind that `^` denotes `Ctrl`.

(1) One method by which people can learn Vim is using the `vimtutor` command. It is like an interactive manual, wherein you can read the documentation which is split up into sections, with each section being designed to be easy to follow and the lessons, easy to remember. By "interactive" I mean you can and are instructed to edit a copy of the manual (do not worry the original manual file is **NOT** edited) using the Vim tools it is teaching you to use. I personally found it to be of some value in learning Vim, but method two is the one that works best for me. 

(2) The second method by which people can learn Vim is by experience, with Google answering their queries about how to do the various actions in Vim. This is the main method that let me learn Vim. 

(3) The third method, which is mostly reserved for people with excellent memory is to read the manual for Vim, or have the manual read to them, perhaps multiple times and magically remember everything in it.

if there are other methods by which one can learn to use Vim I am open to read them in the comments of this post. 
