## 0 A.D.
{% include Infoboxes/game.html game="0 A.D." screenshot="0_A.D._a21.png" logo="0_A.D..png" screenshot_caption='Screenshot of 0 A.D. alpha 21, codename "Ulysses"' date="2001<sup><a href='#fn:2' class='footnote'>2</a></sup>" basis="Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings" basis-link="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_Empires:_The_Age_of_Kings" developers="Wildfire Games" license="GPLv2, MIT, MPL 2.0, <i>etc.</i>" license-link="https://github.com/0ad/0ad/blob/master/LICENSE.txt" genre="Real-time strategy" development="Alpha" language="C++" website="play0ad.com" website-full="https://play0ad.com/" wiki="0ad.wikia.com" wiki-link="http://0ad.wikia.com/wiki/0_A.D._Wiki" platforms="FreeBSD, macOS, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Windows NT" github="0ad/0ad" irc="#0ad" irc-server="quakenet.org" sf="zero-ad" graphics="High-quality 3D" %}

**0 A.D.** is a free and open-source, cross-platform, historic real-time strategy (RTS) game. In it, the player is the leader of an ancient civilization and they must defeat their opponents by amassing a sufficiently large military force. Its name is a deliberate misnomer, as the year 0 A.D. never existed, rather 1 B.C. was the year directly before 1 A.D. The ancient civilizations that can be lead, or played against, in 0 A.D. are those that were present between 500 B.C. and 500 A.D.

It can be played as a single player, or one can play against other players. In single player mode one can play against bots and leader-less teams. By leader-less teams I mean there is no bot leading the team, the people belonging to these teams only behave per the default behaviour. For example, if they are attacked they usually attack back; if they see your people, they may also attack if they are a military unit; otherwise they stay still and do nothing. There are two different bots one can play against: Petra Bot and Tutorial AI. For each bots there are six levels of difficulty one can set them to (sandbox, very easy, easy, medium, hard and very hard). 0 A.D. has several maps on which one can play, there are mods available for the game (with different civilizations available, for example, there is a mod for Asian civilizations).

It utilizes its very own Pyrogenesis game engine; both 0 A.D. and the Pyrogenesis game engine are written in C++. 0 A.D.'s graphics are perhaps the best of any open-source Linux-compatible game I have ever seen. In fact, its graphics rival that of many proprietary games like Age of Empires III (AoE III) and *RuneScape*. I would argue that 0 A.D.'s graphics are superior to that of AoE III, as I have used both and found *0 A.D.*'s graphics better. 0 A.D. is developed by Wildfire Games, an international team of volunteer developers, funded by Software in the Public Interest, Inc. (SPI), a U.S. non-profit organization that also funds several other open-source software projects including Arch Linux, Debian and LibreOffice.{% include_relative fn-inline.html no="3" %}

### Packaging details
Most Linux distributions split 0 A.D. into two packages, that are often named `0ad` and `0ad-data`, respectively. The `0ad` package usually provides the game engine while `0ad-data` provides the game content. Together these two packages are usually over 1.5 GB in installed size on most distributions. To illustrate this fact here is a command I ran on Gentoo Linux (on 1 May 2017) and below it is the output:

{% include Code/equery.html package1="games-strategy/0ad" packageversion1="0.0.21_alpha" files1="46" size1="14.88" files2="61" size2="1.50" sizeunit2="GiB" overlay="fusion809" ebuildurl1="https://github.com/fusion809/fusion809-overlay/blob/060b3c61570c65a83dabced63ebe71817e56fddf/games-strategy/0ad/0ad-0.0.21_alpha.ebuild" ebuildurl2="https://gitweb.gentoo.org/repo/gentoo.git/tree/games-strategy/0ad-data/0ad-data-0.0.21_alpha.ebuild?id=92e30e27bdb5940d3aa5b5039b3b214204b59cc5" %}

*0 A.D.* is one of the easiest games to get on Linux, the majority of Linux distributions have a 0 A.D. package in their official repositories (usually named `0ad`, with game content placed in a separate package called `0ad-data`), including:{% include_relative fn-inline.html no="4" puncr="," %}

* {% include Packages/archlinux.html package="0ad" puncr="," %} 0 A.D. also has an [unofficial package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/0ad-git) in its Arch User Repository that builds 0 A.D. from the latest git snapshot.
* {% include Packages/centos.html package="0ad" versions="7" %}, the EPEL repository presently provides the very latest 0 A.D. release.
* {% include Packages/debian.html package="0ad" puncr="," %} Debian 8 (Jessie) even has the latest 0 A.D. in its backport repository. The latest 0 A.D. is also in the testing and unstable repositories. The oldstable (Wheezy), oldstable-backports and stable (Jessie) repositories contain outdated 0 A.D. releases.
* deepin, the official repositories presently house the second-latest release of 0 A.D., alpha 20.
* {% include Packages/fedora.html package="0ad" puncr="," %} presently the latest 0 A.D. release is in the repositories of all supported Fedora releases (24, 25, 26 and rawhide).
* {% include Packages/gentoo.html package="games-strategy/0ad" puncr="," %} the latest and second-latest releases of 0 A.D. are presently in testing (that is, have `~` in their keyword field for both `x86` and `amd64`).
* {% include Packages/mageia.html package="0ad" puncr="," %} the fairly old releases alpha 18 and 19 are available for Mageia 5.
* Manjaro Linux, has the latest 0 A.D. available from its official repositories.
* {% include Packages/opensuse.html package="0ad" puncr="," %} the official repositories of Tumbleweed has the latest *0 A.D.*, but Leap release 42.2 does not have 0 A.D. in its official repositories, although the unofficial {% include Packages/gamesr.html %} repository does have the latest 0 A.D. for this Leap release.
* [PCLinuxOS](http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/34712537/dir/pclinuxos/com/0ad-0.0.21-1pclos2016.x86_64.rpm.html), which presently has the latest *0 A.D.*
* {% include Packages/sabayon.html package="games-strategy/0ad" puncr="," %} presently has the latest 0 A.D. available from its official repositories.  
* {% include Packages/ubuntu.html package="0ad" puncr="," %} only the latest stable release of Ubuntu, Zesty (17.04), has the latest 0 A.D. release in its official repositories.

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
