## ISO Repositories
In the following repositories I have files used to generate ISO (CD/DVD/USB image) files for the respective distribution mentioned.

* {% include Links/fusgr.md repo="archiso" %} &mdash; as you can probably guess this is for creating an ISO for Arch Linux. This ISO is distinct from the official ISO in that it has out-of-the-box support for Broadcom Wi-Fi chips. To connect to the Wi-Fi in this ISO's live session run `wifi-menu -o`, select your network and enter any necessary information, like its passphrase, run `netctl list` to show available networks and run `netctl status $network` to connect to a network. Last time I built an ISO from it (22 March 2016) it worked as expected with out-of-the-box support for my Broadcom chip. [Here](https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=0B1_sXH68hMWBYm9ORnMyb3dYamM) is a download link for this ISO I created on 22 March 2016. To create a live USB with this ISO run: {% include Code/coders.html line1="dd if=archlinux-2016.03.22-dual.iso of=/dev/sdx status=progress && sync" %} from the directory to which you created/downloaded this ISO file. Where `x` should be replaced with the letter (no numbers!) of your USB stick. For me, it would be `c`, so `/dev/sdx` would be changed to `/dev/sdc`.
* {% include Links/fusgr.md repo="fedora-ISO" %} &mdash; this is for creating an ISO for Fedora, that I hope will have out-of-the-box Broadcom Wireless support. It is a work in progress and still does not have out-of-the-box Broadcom Wireless support, if you would like to help me with this see [this question](https://ask.fedoraproject.org/en/question/83250/how-do-i-create-a-fedora-23-iso-with-broadcom-wl-preinstalled/) at Ask Fedora.
