<!-- 1 -->
## About Gentoo Linux
Gentoo Linux is a flexible, do it yourself-style Linux distribution, with its own source-based package manager known as [Portage](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Portage). Installing Gentoo is a great way to learn about Linux. The Portage package manager is written in Python and as the adjective "source-based" suggests it, by default, installs software that it locally compiles from source code, usually immediately before the package is installed (although it is possible to just compile the package and compress it as a `.tbz2` binary package that can be installed later). This is as opposed to most Linux package managers which installs software from pre-compiled binaries found within the repositories of the distribution. As such installing packages from source with Portage (if one includes the compilation that is performed immediately before the installation itself) takes much longer than installing the corresponding package with a binary package manager like pacman. Generally speaking setting up a Gentoo system with a full desktop environment like KDE Plasma 5 will take several hours, if not days. 

Despite this Portage can be set up to install software from binary packages. These binary packages can be built using Portage using the `-b` or `-B` options for the `emerge` command. If one wishes to install binary packages with Portage from a repository one should note that Gentoo has no *official* binary package repository so one will have to use an unofficial binary package repository. The most notable example of such a binary package repository I can think of is that of [Calculate Linux](http://www.calculate-linux.org/). 
