Most LDs are available **free of charge**{% include Links/fn.html no="2" puncl="," %} while Windows is not. If you have bought a new computer with Windows preinstalled and you are thinking, "I did not pay for Windows, it came with the computer." I am afraid you are mistaken. Part of the cost of your computer was likely for the Windows operating system that came preinstalled on it. Unless otherwise stated, all LDs mentioned by name in this post are available free of charge.

Unfortunately, however, the vast majority of computers (if not all of them), that you can purchase from your local technology store will have either OS X or Windows preinstalled, so while you can still install Linux on these machines (either alongside OS X/Windows, or over them) for free, you will still end up paying for a proprietary OS like OS X/Windows anyway. You can buy computers with no OS pre-installed from selected vendors online, the problem with these computers is that by-and-large they will be barebones PCs, which you will need to assemble yourself. This process (I should mention, I have never done this myself, so this is second-hand information I am relaying) requires some technical know-how, so it may not be suitable for standard Windows users. Barebones PCs usually cost substantially less than their pre-assembled counterparts, though, and it is not just because of the fact they often include no preinstalled operating systems. So if you are desperate to cut costs, it is an option, provided you can spare the time. 
