## AppImage
An **AppImage** is a disk image with a binary executable inside it, along with all dependencies that cannot realistically be expected to be provided by the host operating system. When the AppImage is executed it is mounted with FUSE, then a binary, or script named AppRun inside is executed. If it is a binary it symlinks to the program's binary in the appropriated file system locations (usually under {% include Layouts/path.html path="usr/bin" puncr=")," %} while if it is a script it usually executes this binary, it can also install a desktop configuration file (so it appears in application menus) for the application being launched using the AppImage. I have personally built several AppImages, so I understand more about this format than the rest mentioned in this overview. The way they are usually built is by finding a bleeding-edge package for it in the repositories of a fairly old, but still maintained distribution, for example Ubuntu 14.04 would qualify as of March 2018. Then you write a script or YAML file that in conjunction with shell scripts downloads this package and its dependencies that cannot be reasonably expected to be provided by most popular desktop out-of-the-box Linux distributions like CentOS, Debian, Fedora, Manjaro, openSUSE, Sabayon and Ubuntu. Then it adds and moves a few files and builds the AppImage. 

I should probably mention if you want to use one you need to mark it executable (like with {% include Code/codeus.html line1="chmod +x /path/to/AppImage" puncr=")" %} in order to run it. 
It is developed by a software developer named Simon Peter, and has two defunct predecessors also developed by Simon Peter, **klik** (2004-2011) and **PortageLinuxApps** (2011-2013), that are considered synonymous with AppImage to some, but to me they are more than distinct enough to be considered separate formats altogether. If you would like to learn more about these predecessors I suggest you read its [English Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AppImage). 
