### Chroot
**Chroot** (invoked by the [`chroot`](https://fusion809.github.io/man/chroot.1.html) command) is a Unix command that is used to change the apparent root for a given process and its children (that is, processes started by this "given process"). This means, or so is the hope, that the file system outside this **new root** should be unaffected by any commands run in this new root. This "new root" is also known as the **new apparent root**, or **guest file system**; the file system outside this new root will be referred to as the **host file system**. This means that if one is building a package and the build commands being used[^1] are flawed and potentially system-damaging, they will not have access to the host file system and rather will only be able to cause damage to the guest file system.

The new root, used by the chroot command, is also frequently referred to by the term *chroot*, which can lead to some confusion. When one uses the chroot command to build packages one usually sets up a directory (which is used as the *apparent root* for the chroot command), with in it, the file system structure of the operating system one is intending to build packages for. Chroot is a basic form of virtualization, which is something I will leave you to read up about in this site's [glossary](https://fusion809.github.io/glossary/#virtualization). I have fairly limited experience building packages in chroots and this is mostly limited to building in Gentoo / Sabayon chroots, so this section will mostly relate to building packages in Gentoo / Sabayon chroots.

For Gentoo / Sabayon chroots, I usually created a new directory `/root2` wherein I would create a file system that resembles a minimal (with only the bare essential programs pre-installed) installation of Gentoo / Sabayon. I did this by extracting a stage3 tarball for the respective OS, into the `/root2` directory. Then I bound up the necessary parts of my host system (like `/dev`, `/proc`, `/sys` and `/tmp`), copied my `/etc/resolv.conf` file, to their respective parts in the `/root2` directory. This I did, by running:

{% include Code/coder.html line1="mount -t proc none /root2/proc" line2="mount -o bind /dev /root2/dev" line3="mkdir /root2/usr/portage" line4="mount -o bind /usr/portage /root2/usr/portage" line5="mkdir /root2/usr/src/linux" line6="mount -o bind /usr/src/linux /root2/usr/src/linux" line7="mkdir /root2/lib/modules" line8="mount -o bind /lib/modules /root2/lib/modules" line9="mount -o bind /sys /root2/sys" line10="cp /etc/resolv.conf /root2/etc/resolv.conf" line11="mount -o bind /tmp /root2/tmp" line12="mount --rbind /dev /root2/dev" line13="mount --rbind /sys /root2/sys" %}

In order to use chroot to build packages one must have at least a basic understanding of the chroot command's syntax. GNU's chroot command has the following basic syntax (taken from the [CHROOT(1)](https://fusion809.github.io/man/chroot.1.html) man page):

{% include Code/coder.html line1="chroot [OPTION] NEWROOT [COMMAND [ARG]...]" %}

Now, the way you should interpret this basic syntax, is that what appears in square-brackets (`[...]`), are *optional* arguments or inputs. What is not in square brackets is a mandatory input (in this case only `NEWROOT` is a mandatory argument). For me, I have never had to concern myself with the `[OPTION]` part of this basic syntax, so I will ignore it in this post. `NEWROOT`, as you can probably guess, is the new apparent root being used by the process started by the chroot command, which in the aforementioned examples for Gentoo / Sabayon chroots would be `/root2`. `[COMMAND]` is the "given process" mentioned earlier in this section and is the first command that is to be run in the new root (any additional commands that are run in the new root have to be started by this command, as a *child process*) and `[ARG]...` refers to any arguments (like options) for this first command that the user wishes to specify. The most common choice of `[COMMAND]` is the default Unix shell of the host operating system, which for most Linux distributions is `/bin/bash`. So in the case of a Gentoo / Sabayon chroot I would normally use the command:

{% include Code/coder.html line1="chroot /root2 /bin/bash" %}

to enter the chroot. Note no `[ARG]...` is specified in this line, I seldom ever specify an `[ARG]...` for `[COMMAND]`.

Once you have entered the chroot, you can build packages the same way you would normally. For example, in a Gentoo / Sabayon chroot one would likely build tbz2 binaries by running `ebuild $package.ebuild package`.
