I have two separate Gentoo installations, one I created 26 April 2017, a few days after I had created another, but this first successful installation of Gentoo to which I speak was destroyed when one my hard disks crashed. So I had to rebuild it on 26 and 27 April 2017 and boy was it frustrating! It taught me an awful lot about Linux, however. 
After this I installed Arch Linux on 24 June 2017, it was fairly easy as I had installed Arch a few times before this. 
I installed Void for the first time, on my actual disk (as opposed to in a virtual machine to a virtual disk), as the musl edition on 18 November 2017, I gave up due to the frustrations of using runit. 
On 18 November 2017 I installed NixOS 17.09 on my disk. It was a true delight. I didn’t use it long mostly because bleeding-edge and rolling release models are my preferences. NixOS is a fixed release distro, with transactional package management, it was the unusual style of package management (shared only by GuixSD, and to some extent GoboLinux, both of which are even more unsuitiable to me. GuixSD is a “free” distro, so no proprietary software, including device drivers, while GoboLinux has tiny repositories and several outdated pieces of software in them) that drew me in. 
After this I gave Void (musl) another go on 19 November 2017. It was successful and for the most part it was great. The only thing that really ticked me off was that musl has no locales and it caused unusual icons to pop-up in several places, particularly at the command-line. I thought it also caused unusual fonts in web browsers to appear, but I used the glibc edition later and it turned out I got the same exact problem!
My second Gentoo install (or third if you include the one destroyed by the disk crash) I created 25 November 2017. I first wiped the Void (musl) install, splitting it into two partitions, with what I did on the other partition mentioned in the next paragraph. I created it separately as I wanted to see if it was really viable for me to use runit as the init in a Gentoo installation. It took a little work (e.g. [this question](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/407091/on-gentoo-how-can-one-connect-to-the-wifi-from-the-command-line-without-the-net) on Unix & Linux StackExchange pertains to it), but I did get it to work. This was helped by the fact I installed Gentoo, with runit as the init, in a VirtualBox virtual machine (VM) as a trial run before this. 
Also on 25 November 2017 I installed Void Linux, glibc edition. A few minor hickups occurred, mostly related to networking and i3 occurred, but within a few hours I got her up and going. 
I have used Linux on and off since 2012, but used it as my primary OS since ~2015. I have used it as my sole operating system since near the end of 2015.

