A few days ago I saw a post in the Arch and Manjaro Facebook Group (that has since been deleted) asking what would be the best Linux distribution for a computer science student to try as a first distribution. The replies varied quite significantly from Gentoo Linux (which is a real turn off even for the most experienced Linux users, due to how much work it is to setup and then maintain a Gentoo system, some die-hard fans of the system exist, but for me at least Gentoo is just too much of a headache) to Linux Mint and Ubuntu. While I have done a [comparison of free operating systems](/2016/01/07/comparison-of-free-operating-systems), I felt this query deserved its own post.

When I first started using Linux in mid 2012, the only distribution that I could possibly handle without becoming totally discouraged by the apparent difficulty for me to transition from Windows NT systems to Linux systems, was Ubuntu. But that was me, someone with limited knowledge and little aptitude for computers and technology in general and even less patience for a system that did not work out-of-the-box, while a computer science student on the other hand probably would not mind getting pushed a little further into the deep end of Linux than myself. This post is designed to offer suggestions as to the best Linux distribution for people with specific skill sets, interests, levels of patience, *etc.*

In general, if you are uncertain as to which distribution I mention here, to try (all of which are available free of charge &mdash; I do not endorse proprietary software or operating systems), I suggest you try all those you think, based on what I am saying, would be best for you, in a VirtualBox Virtual Machine. [Oracle VM VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) (or VB for short) is a free and open-source cross-platform software application in which you can run almost any and every Linux distribution you could run on a physical machine, without ever logging out or fiddling with your partitions. If you go the [download page](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) for VirtualBox you will find binary packages you can use to install VB on a variety of platforms including Linux, OS X, Solaris and Windows NT (Vista or later). Every Linux distribution mentioned in this post can be run in a VirtualBox VM (I know because I have tried them all).
