## Busy Techies

### Arch Linux
If you have less free time to install and then configure your Linux system, but still want a great degree of freedom over it and would like the very latest software, the same day it is released, then I think [**Arch Linux**](https://www.archlinux.org) will be the distribution for you. While it is still challenging for newcomers to set up Arch Linux (as there is no automated installer and it comes with no pre-installed GUI, so everything must be done from the command-line) and it can take a while (for me installing it and setting it up for everyday use probably took at least a couple of hours, but this was partly because I was using a laptop which used a Wi-Fi chipset not supported out-of-the-box by the Linux kernel, so I had to install some extra firmware), it is nowhere near as challenging or tedious as Gentoo is to install and maintain. Like Gentoo, Arch follows a rolling release model, but unlike Gentoo upgrading an Arch system is as simple as issuing a single command:
{% include Code/coders.html line1="pacman -Syu --noconfirm" %}. Arch is also more limited in the CPU architectures it supports, with support for only arm, i686 and x86_64 architectures.

#### Package Management
Arch Linux uses its own binary package manager called **pacman**, which also comes with a command-line tool (called `makepkg`) to build binary packages from source code using the instructions found in a specialized type of Bash script called a **PKGBUILD**. The pacman package also provides other commands, to list them all run:
{% include Code/codeus.html line1="pacman -Qlq pacman | grep /usr/bin" %}. Arch Linux has its own online repository (that since August 2015 has been managed by git) of PKGBUILDs provided by the community, for use installing software not in the pacman binary package repository, it is called the **Arch User Repository** (**AUR**). Writing PKGBUILDs, I can tell you from personal experience writing both ebuilds (if you passed by the Gentoo section these are the Gentoo equivalent to PKGBUILDs) and PKGBUILDs, is far simpler than writing ebuilds. If I see a package I want to install on my Arch system that is not in the pacman repos or the AUR, odds are within an hour I would have written a working PKGBUILD, and using makepkg created and installed a binary package from it. The same can most certainly not be said for ebuilds on my Gentoo VMs, odds are I will not be able to write a functioning ebuild for the package at all and if I do manage it, it is likely it would take me several hours. Even bumping existing ebuilds to a later version of the package they provide, is something I sometimes fail to do properly.

I usually find the software in Arch's official repositories tends to be a little more up-to-date than the latest version in the Portage Tree. Although if you want to always have the latest Linux kernel, then I would suggest you use Gentoo Linux instead of Arch Linux, because I tend to find there is quite a delay between the release of the latest kernel and its addition to Arch's core repository. Although usually the latest kernel will be added to the Portage Tree within a few hours of it being released. This being said, it is worthwhile noting that the Portage Tree took over two months to get the 3.18 release of GNOME, so I still stand by my previous statement that Arch's repository tends to be a little more up-to-date than that in the Portage Tree. If you want/need the latest kernels, but do not want to use Gentoo due to how long installing software and maintaining the system takes, I would suggest you use [**Sabayon Linux**](https://www.sabayon.org/) instead as it is a Gentoo derivative that also has its own binary package manager which has repositories that contain the vast majority of packages you probably want/need on your system, including the latest kernels. It still has Portage, however, although if you use Portage on Sabayon you cannot expect any support from the Sabayon community, according to the developers of Sabayon.

pacman is, in my opinion, by far the fastest package manager in terms of how quickly it installs software. It is written predominantly in C and its binary packages are xz-compressed, with the file extension `.pkg.tar.xz`. I personally would give pacman five stars out of five, in terms of how much I like it as a package manager. There are also several community-provided (not officially supported by the Arch Linux development team) programs available to automate the process of installing packages from the AUR and to search the AUR. See [here](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/AUR_helpers) for an article on these AUR tools (or "AUR helpers" as they are referred to in this article) at *The ArchWiki*. I personally prefer the AUR helpers:

* **pacaur** &mdash; a command-line tool with a similar syntax to pacman itself, it is written in Bash and C. It can be used to do everything with AUR packages that pacman can be used to do with packages in the pacman repositories.
* **trizen** &mdash; a command-line tool written in Perl that also shares a similar syntax to pacman. It is fairly similar to pacaur.
* **yaourt** &mdash; a Bash wrapper for pacman that shares most of its syntax with pacman. It was the only AUR helper I used until pacman 5.0.0 came out. See yaourt depends on the `package-query` package, which is imcompatible with pacman 5.0.0. pacaur and trizen are compatible with pacman 5.0.0, however.

#### Useful Resources
* [**Arch User Repository**](https://aur.archlinux.org/) &mdash; where you can search the AUR for packages.
* [**The ArchWiki**](https://wiki.archlinux.org), which is the best (most detailed, largest, best-maintained, *etc.*) Wiki pertaining to any particular Linux distribution that I have seen.
* [**Forums**](https://bbs.archlinux.org)
* [**Home Page**](https://www.archlinux.org/) &mdash; where you can also search for packages in the pacman repositories. Alternatively you can run the command {% include Code/codeus.html line1="pacman -Ss &lt;TERM&gt;"%} to search for packages with `<TERM>` appearing either in their description or name.
* {% include Links/irc.html channel="archlinux" %} &mdash; I have only tried to use it once and that one time, suffice it to say they were less than polite, although it is possible that I could have gotten the wrong end of the stick.

### Fedora
[**Fedora**](https://getfedora.org/) comes with an automated installer (which can be run from both the command-line and graphically), which makes it easier to install. This installer requires like five minutes worth of user attention before the rest of the process, while tedious, is automatic and requires no user intervention. So suffice it to say that Fedora is a good choice for the very busy. Fedora uses the DNF package manager for package management, with PackageKit (and its derivatives GNOME Software and Apper) being a popular front-end. DNF is essentially a faster version of yum, it shares most of yum's source code the only significant difference is that DNF uses some of openSUSE's ZYpp package manager's components to speed up its notoriously slow dependency resolution. System maintenance on Fedora is as simple as running a couple of commands every week or so (if you do so less frequently nothing bad is likely to happen besides any software updates will likely be greater in download size and the time they take to be downloaded and installed).

Despite this it is often said to be a developer's distribution, because it uses the very latest software for the most part. In fact Linus Torvalds, the developer of the Linux kernel, is said to use Fedora on all his PCs. Although I should warn you that it does **not** follow a rolling release model, so new releases need to be installed over older releases, which can become a pain seeing how a new release comes out roughly every six months. When new releases of Fedora come out they usually have the very latest kernel and desktop environments (its default desktop is GNOME), although as time passes after the latest release is made, the kernel of this latest release will usually become out-of-date. For example, I have a VM for Fedora 23 which is running the 4.3.3 kernel as of 30 January 2015, even though the 4.4.0 kernel was released 10 January 2015.

I would probably give DNF three to four stars out of five, as it is fairly slow, despite it being an improvement over yum. One feature I like about it are package groups, which can be used to install a whole set of required packages. Like to install the KDE desktop one would run:
{% include Code/coder.html line1="dnf install -y @kde-desktop" %}

Fedora presently only supports armhfp, i686 and x86_64 architectures. It does have several different official editions which vary mostly in their pre-installed desktop environment. So if your PC does not have much CPU power/RAM to work with, you may wish to use the LXDE edition. A netinstall edition also exists, which you can install and customize to your liking.

#### Useful Resources
* [Ask Fedora](https://ask.fedoraproject.org/) &mdash; an AskBot-powered Q&A website for Fedora that is similar, but not quite as swift and high-quality in its responses, in my opinion at least, as Ask Ubuntu is for Ubuntu-related queries.
* [Fedora Project Wiki](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Fedora_Project_Wiki) &mdash; a MediaWiki-powered Wiki that I consider a dinosaur in that its information nearly exclusively pertains to older releases of Fedora. Most pages still refer to the `yum` command for package management.
* [Forums](http://fedoraforum.org/) &mdash; never had the pleasure or displeasure of using it myself, so cannot comment on it.
* {% include Links/irc.html channel="fedora" %} &mdash; also never had the pleasure/displeasure of using this channel.

### Sabayon Linux
**Sabayon Linux** as previously mentioned is a Linux distribution with both a binary package manager and source code package manager, Entropy and Portage, respectively. Sabayon also comes with its own automated installer, which was previously the Anaconda installer (used by Fedora) but is now Calamares (which unlike Anaconda can only be run graphically, installation from the command-line impossible). Like Anaconda, however, Calamares requires like five minutes of user attention (in which they mostly just punch in their hostname, username, password, *etc.*) before the rest of the roughly 30 minutes - 1 hour automated installation process occurs during which the user is free to do whatever they want to pass the time. Installing and maintaining Sabayon using Calamares and Entropy, respectively, is simple enough for me to believe that non-techies could manage it without a problem. There are seven major editions of Sabayon, each with a different set of pre-installed packages: GNOME, KDE, MATE, Minimal (Fluxbox), Server, SpinBase and Xfce. The Server and SpinBase editions are largely free of a pre-installed GUI, although the Server edition does have the graphical Calamares installer available.

#### Package Management
Both Entropy and Portage are written in Python and to a lesser extent, Bash script. Entropy's repositories contain binary packages created using Portage and then converted from Portage binary packages to Entropy packages using Entropy itself. The ebuilds these packages are built from come either from the Portage Tree or the `sabayon`/`sabayon-distro` overlays maintained by the Sabayon development team. I find Entropy fairly slow at dependency resolution, package decompression and installation, which I suspect may be related to the fact it is written in an interpreted language like Python instead of a compiled language such as C and C++ like the faster package managers, APT, pacman and ZYpp, are. Users that want packages not in the Entropy repositories can use Portage to install them from either the Portage Tree or the unofficial Portage overlays. Sometimes, however, you may find packages you want that are not in the Portage Tree or unofficial overlays, in these cases you would do what you would do on Gentoo, that is, write an ebuild for the package you want.

Entropy would receive four stars out of five from me. It is fairly easy to use, but it is also fairly slow. The Entropy repositories are usually fairly up-to-date, but you will find the odd piece of out-of-date software in them. See only two people maintain these repositories, in their spare time (to my knowledge they both have full-time jobs too, so needless to say their spare time is not a vast resource) and there are over 13,000 packages in there so it is inevitable that a few will slip through the cracks. This is as opposed to over a dozen different developers that main Arch and Fedora's package repositories. Although rest assured, the desktop and system software (like the kernel, coreutils package, KDE desktop components, GNOME desktop components, *etc.*) in the Entropy repositories is usually updated within a day or two of the update being released upstream. Where upstream is either the Portage Tree or one of the Sabayon overlays (`sabayon`/`sabayon-distro`).

Sabayon unlike Gentoo only supports armhf and x86_64 architectures, although i686 support did exist until 2014.

#### Useful Resources
* [Download Page](http://www.sabayon.org/latest)
* [Forums](https://forum.sabayon.org/)
* [Sabayon Wiki](https://wiki.sabayon.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) &mdash; its Wiki's quality is far less than that of Arch or Gentoo Linux.
* {% include Links/irc.html channel="sabayon" %} &mdash; support channel. Beware though, if you make any suggestions to the Sabayon team, or criticisms, or request a package there, you risk having your head bitten off! I know this from personal experience. Granted I was only bitten at by one guy and it was for offering suggestions and requesting a package update more than once, but still it is not a pleasant experience.

### Other Distributions
This section really just mentioned some distributions that are a little more challening for non-techies to grasp but easier and faster to setup and maintain than Gentoo. It is possible that some techies may like to use [Debian](#debian), [Manjaro Linux](#manjaro-linux) or [openSUSE](#opensuse) as their first distribution, which are discussed in the sections they were hyperlinked to. All three come with automated installers, are easy to maintain and give users some room to grow and learn.
