{% include Links/image.html image="Jekyll/Jekyll_Logo.png" width="250px" float="right" description="The Jekyll logo" %}

**Jekyll** is a free and open-source **static site generator** (**SSG**) that is written in Ruby and developed by GitHub. According to most sources it is the most popular free and open-source SSG available in the world today. It is the engine that powers this website and several others, most of which are hosted by **GitHub Pages** (**GP**). GitHub Pages enables users to create a website and maintain it in a GitHub repository. Using GP for hosting has several advantages, for one it is free, second it is possible to edit one's website on GP from the command-line, from feature-packed text editors like Atom (also developed by GitHub) or even from the GitHub web interface. GP can be used with a number of different static site generators, the only other one, besides Jekyll, I have personally seen being used with GP is Hugo (a SSG written in Go), however.

The major advantage of SSGs over their dynamic site generator counterparts, is that they minimize the client-side burden for viewing the site, which means that users of smartphones are less likely to wait long periods to view the site. Jekyll as a SSG has a few different advantages and disadvantages, from my point of view its most significant advantage is that it is easy to learn and use and its most significant disadvantage is that it is difficult (but not impossible, for the patient) to run it on Microsoft Windows, due to its Ruby dependency. I have tried one other SSG, Hugo, which was a nightmare, in terms of how difficult it was to set up a site.

This post leaves out some advanced options mentioned in the [official Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/), partly because some of them I do not even understand, but also partly because I want this post to be simple enough to follow that even a twelve year old could follow these instructions without a problem.
