
## Atom
{% include Links/image.html image="Atom/Atom-1.7.2.png" width="100%" description="The Atom text editor (v1.7.2) opened to this very blog post, with an embedded terminal (provided by the `terminal-plus` package) shown" float="none" %}

**Atom** is a free, MIT-licensed text editor that is built using web technologies and developed by GitHub. It started out as a side project of Chris Wanstrath, one of GitHub's founders, in mid 2008. It is built using the [**Electron framework**](https://electron.atom.io) (previously called Atom Shell) for buildng cross-platform desktop applications using web technologies. It is extensively customizable, yet also simple enough, for someone that has never used a text editor in their life, to pick up in no time without help. Despite this it is a large application with its binaries being &gt;50 MB and taking up &gt;200 MB hard drive space when installed, additionally its boot times are fairly long and it is only in the official repositories of two Linux distributions that I am aware of, namely, Gentoo Linux and Sabayon Linux. Further details about it can be found in the [*Running Atom on Linux*](https://fusion809.github.io/running-atom-on-linux) post.

The Electron framework that Atom is built on, includes Chromium (the open-source project from which Google Chrome gets most of its source code) in its source code. Electron is also based on and utilizes the [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) JavaScript runtime engine. Electron is open-source and licensed under the MIT License. Electron apps, under Linux, use the GTK+ 2 toolkit. This framework essentially allows developers to create cross-platform desktop applications using web technologies.

Like many other advanced text editors (such as Sublime Text and Visual Studio Code) it has a command pallette that is opened by the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>. It also has the ability to use tabs and panes for working on more than one file at a time. 
