Something I frequently do on whichever Linux distribution I find myself on (including Arch Linux, Fedora, Manjaro Linux, openSUSE and Sabayon Linux), is I build packages. It is infinitely rare, in fact so rare that I have not ever come across such a case, for a distribution to have every exact package (including package version) I want. Package development, for me, is done via one of four major methods:

* Building the package using the **standard tools** on my own instance of the respective Linux distribution. For example, on Arch Linux this involves writing a PKGBUILD and running `makepkg -s` in the directory of said PKGBUILD. This method is the most risky of methods, as if there is something wrong with the build file (e.g., with the `.ebuild` or `.spec` file extension or `PKGBUILD`/`rules` file name), it is possible for this method to lead to system breakage. It is also the easiest and fastest method for building packages for the present OS.
* Building the package in a **chroot**, using the standard tools. chroots should (but there are no guarantees) protect one's system from any errors in the build file.
* Building the package using [**Docker**](https://www.docker.com/), using the standard tools. It is at least as safe as building in a chroot and it is more platform-independent as you can build packages for any of a variety of different distributions, on the one system.
* Building the package using the [**Open Build Service**](https://build.opensuse.org/) (**OBS**). The OBS can be accessed from the command-line using the `osc` ([OSC(1)](/man/osc.1.html) man page) command and from a web-based interface. The package to which the `osc` command belongs, along with its various subcommands, can be challenging to install on non-openSUSE platforms. On Arch Linux this package is available from the Arch User Repository (AUR), so to install it with Yaourt run: {% include Code/codeus-fs.html line1="yaourt -S osc" %} Using the OBS to build packages also allows one to more easily distribute the packages one builds, as one can set up an OBS repository using this method. This repository can have packages for a variety of different distributions including Arch Linux, Debian, Fedora, Mageia, openSUSE and Ubuntu. There is **one major caveat**, however, which is that one **cannot build packages** that require an **Internet connection** during their build, using this method. This precludes me from creating a package for the Atom text editor using this method, except via using pre-built binaries which are only available for 64-bit platforms.

Fedora users also have another method available to them for building packages, [**Copr**](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/). **Copr** is similar to the OBS in that it builds packages and creates package repositories in which to store them, but unlike the OBS Copr can optionally provide packages with Internet access during the build and can only be used to build Fedora packages.
