## User Interfaces
Before I proceed I should probably perform a brief compare and contrast between the more popular user interfaces (or desktop environments) for Linux. The most popular Linux user interfaces include: Cinnamon, Deepin Desktop Environment (DDE), Enlightenment, GNOME, KDE Plasma, LXDE, LXQt, MATE, Moksha, Pantheon, Trinity, Xfce and Unity. 

Cinnamon, DDE, GNOME, KDE Plasma and Unity are the heaviest user interfaces, in terms of their CPU and RAM usage. LXDE, LXQt, MATE, Moksha and Xfce are the lighter desktop environments, with LXDE likely the lightest of all, in terms of CPU/RAM usage. Enlightenment, Pantheon and Trinity are probably middle of the road in terms of resource usage. 

KDE Plasma is probably the most configurable (or customizable) of all user interfaces, followed closely by Cinnamon, Trinity and Xfce. GNOME is also rather customizable, although, in my opinion, it seems to focus more on the, "less is more" design philosophy, trying not to overwhelm users with customization options. Enlightenment, LXDE, MATE, Moksha and Pantheon are moderately customizable, similarly to GNOME. DDE, LXQt and Unity are fairly minimally customizable, I would argue LXQt is the least customizable.

DDE, Enlightenment, GNOME, KDE Plasma, LXDE, Pantheon and Xfce are all &ldquo;original&rdquo; user interfaces, not forked from any older user interfaces. Enlightenment, GNOME, KDE and Xfce were founded in the mid-late 1990s, while LXDE was founded in the mid 2000s and DDE and Pantheon were founded in the early-mid 2010s. LXDE is built using the GTK+ 2 toolkit, while GNOME, Pantheon and Xfce are built using the latest release of the GTK+ toolkit. DDE and KDE Plasma are built using the Qt widget toolkit. Enlightenment uses its own widget toolkit, the Enlightenment Foundation Libraries (EFL).

Cinnamon was forked from GNOME 3 in 2011, as its developers were dissatisfied with the unconventional user interface of GNOME 3. Likewise MATE was forked from GNOME 2, also in 2011, as a continuation of GNOME 2 which had a more conventional user interface to that of GNOME 3. MATE originally used the GTK+ 2 toolkit like its parent desktop environment, while later versions of MATE are built using GTK+ 3. Unity is a graphical shell for the GNOME desktop environment that was first released in 2010 and is used as the default user interface of Ubuntu. Unity is probably the least popular Linux user interface, it is so unpopular that it has been only ported (in its latest versions) to Arch Linux and Gentoo Linux, despite being out for over six years. LXQt is essentially a port of LXDE from GTK+ 2 to the Qt widget toolkit. Moksha was forked from an older version of Enlightenment (specifically Enlightenment 17) and is used mostly just by Bodhi Linux. Trinity was forked from KDE 3 (a version of KDE that came out before the KDE Plasma series of desktop environments) and is used as the default desktop environment of Exe GNU/Linux and Q4OS &mdash; both Debian (stable)-based distributions.