## An Introduction to Classification
Programming languages can be [**implemented**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_language_implementation) (or executed, that is, run) via one of two methods:

* **Interpretation**. This method is basically what it sounds like: it is when the program's source code is translated into a series of actions implemented by the computer's hardware.
* **Compilation**. [**Compilers**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compiler) essentially serve as translators between languages &mdash; transforming one programming language into another computer language, which can then be compiled further into another language or fed into an interpreter. Some compilers (**native code compilers** [**NCCs**]) compile programming languages directly into machine code (which as its name suggests is a set of instructions that can be directly interpreted by a computer's Central Processing Unit). Assembly languages (explained later) are usually compiled using NCCs. The most popular type of compiler, overall, however, is one that compiles source code into object code (which is machine-readable, hence readily executed).
As a general rule of thumb, compiled languages are faster than interpreted languages, although interpreted languages tend to be more convenient and human-readable.

Programming languages can be classed according to several different properties, including their **level of abstraction** (which refers to how different they are from machine code &mdash; high-level programming languages are more abstract than mid- and low-level programming languages. Higher-level programming languages are more human-readable than their lower-level counterparts, hence making them easier to work with), **implementation method**, [**programming paradigm**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_paradigm) and **purpose** (e.g., some programming languages are designed for numerical calculations while others are designed to write application software). For example, [Python](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language)) is a general-purpose, high-level, interpreted programming language that supports multiple paradigms.

A **programming paradigm** is a difficult concept for me to explain, but I will give it my best try. It essentially refers to the internal workings of the programming language. For example, object-oriented programming is based on the concept of objects, which are data structures, and procedures, or in other words, actions performed using the objects.

Another feature of programming languages that can be used to categorize them, that is also distinct from those previously mentioned, is that of **dynamic vs. static programming languages**. Dynamic programming languages are those that execute many of the tasks that static programming languages perform during compilation, during interpretation. Dynamic programming languages usually (but not always) also support scripts, which are special programs (that are usually fairly short) written for special interpreters that can automate the execution of tasks that would otherwise have to be performed manually by a human operator. Languages that support scripts are also called [**scripting languages**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scripting_language).
